{"Request_to_Use_Alternative_Service": "Request to use Alternative Service (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberLanguage PreferenceThe LTB offers services in both French and English.What is your preferred language?FrenchEnglishI am asking to use an alternative method to serve a party to a Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) proceeding. I am unable serve the party using the regular methods of service listed in section 191 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 or LTB Rule of Procedure 3.Name and Address of the RequestorFirst NameLast Name Company Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressAddress of the Rental UnitStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeNote: A request to use an alternative method to serve a tenant or a former tenant no longer in possession of a rental unit with a L10 Application and Notice of Hearing must be given to the LTB at least 40 days before the hearing.v. 01/09/2021Page 1 of 2 1. Explain how you have already tried to serve the other party. You must have already tried to serve the other party using the regular methods before making this request.Attach more sheets, if necessary.2. What alternative method of service would you like to use? Explain why you think the party will receive the documents using this method. For example, if you want to use email, explain why you believe the party uses the proposed email address and will receive the document.Attach more sheets, if necessary.SignatureLandlordLandlord RepresentativeTenantTenant RepresentativeOtherFirst NameLast NameLSO #Phone NumberSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)For Board Use Only:The request to use alternative method of service is: Granted DeniedReasons:Approved Method:Deadline for Service:Name of Member:Signature:Date:The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Page 2 of 2", "L10": "Form L10 - ChecklistApplication to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes Before you file the attached application with the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB), make sure you can answer YES to each of the following questions. If not, your application may be dismissed, which means you may have to start over.Did the tenant move out of the rental unit on or after September 1, 2021?You cannot file this application if the tenant is still living in the rental unit or moved out before September 1, 2021.Did the tenant move out of the rental unit within the last year?You cannot file this application if the former tenant moved out more than one year ago.Did you name each former tenant of the rental unit?Did you fill in the complete address of the rental unit?You must provide the full address, including the postal code. Be sure you have correctly identified the rental unit.Did you fill in the complete current address for each former tenant named in the application, if known?You can leave this blank if you do not know the former tenant's current address. However, after the LTB issues a Notice of Hearing you must give the former tenant a copy of this application and the Notice of Hearing at least 30 days before the hearing. See the instructions for more information about how you can give these documents to the former tenant.Did you select the applicable reason(s) and provide all of the requested details?Did you check your math?Make sure you have correctly calculated the total amounts owing. Check the calculation across the rows of each table and then check the total amounts in the final columns. Also check to be sure that the amount in the box on page 1 matches the total amount owing in Part 5.Did you date and sign the application on page 7?If your application is not signed and dated, the LTB will not accept it. Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for LandlordsUse this application if the tenant has already moved out of the rental unit and you want to apply for an order to: \u0141 collect rent arrears and/or compensation that you believe the former tenant owes you, \u0141 collect an amount for charges related to NSF cheques the former tenant gave you, \u0141 collect costs you believe the former tenant owes you for unpaid utility bills, \u0141 collect money you believe the former tenant owes you for damaging the rental unit, \u0141 collect costs that you incurred because the former tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit substantially interfered with your reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest. You must file this application no later than one year after the former tenant moved out of the rental unit. Instructions for this application are available at the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Select your language preference (French or English). If you require accommodation complete a Tribunals Ontario Accommodation Request form. 2. Complete this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for information about the address of the rental unit covered by this application. \u0141 Part 2 requires you to fill in the total amount you believe the former tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 3 asks for general information about: \u0141 you (your name, etc.) \u0141 the date the former tenant moved out of the rental unit, \u0141 the former tenant's current address, \u0141 your email address and the former tenant's email address, if known, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 4 requires you to: \u0141 select and explain the reason(s) for your application, and \u0141 show how you calculated the amount you believe the former tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 5 asks you to show how you calculated the total amount you believe the former tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 6 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 3. Complete the checklist that is attached to the application to make sure you have completed the application form correctly. Do not include the checklist when you file the application. 4. File all pages of the application with the LTB (not including this page) no more than 365 days after the day the former tenant moved out of the rental unit. The LTB will send you a notice of hearing showing the time and method of your hearing. Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)5. Pay the application fee of $201 to the LTB at the same time as you file the application. The LTB will not process your application unless you pay the fee. You can email your application and pay online. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can pay by credit card, certified cheque or money order. If you cannot afford the fee, you can submit a Fee Waiver Request. 6. Give each of the former tenants named in this application a separate copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing issued by the LTB. You must do this at least 30 days before the hearing using one of the methods listed in the Certificate of Service \u0152 Former Tenant. If you cannot use one of these methods, you can ask the LTB for permission to serve the documents in a different way by submitting a Request to Use Alternative Service. You must submit this request at least 40 days before the hearing. 7. File a completed Certificate of Service \u0152 Former Tenant with the LTB setting out how and when you gave each former tenant a copy of this application and the Notice of Hearing. You must file the completed Certificate of Service with the LTB at least 20 days before the hearing. If the LTB does not receive the Certificate of Service by this deadline it may cancel your hearing and close your application. Your filing fee will not be refunded if this happens. 8. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Language PreferenceThe LTB offers services in both French and English.What is your preferred language?FrenchEnglishIf you are the respondent and want French Language Services, complete the Request for French Language Services form and send it by email or mail to the LTB office handling this file.AccommodationAccommodations are arrangements to allow everyone, regardless of their abilities, to participate fully in the LTB's process. If you require accommodation complete the Accommodation Request form and email or mail it to the LTB office that is handling this file. The form and more information about accommodation is available at tribunalsontario.ca/en/accessibility-and-diversity/.Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters.Part 1: Address of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodePart 2: Total Amount the Former Tenant OwesThe following information is from your landlordI am applying to the Landlord and Tenant Board for an order: \u0141 to collect the money you owe me.I believe that you owe me a total of $.This amount includes the filing fee for this application. To see how I calculated this amount, go to page 6.OFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 01/09/2021Page 1 of 7 Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)The following information is from the Landlord and Tenant Board IF YOU AGREE with the amount the landlord claims you owe: If you agree with the amount the landlord claims you owe, you can pay everything you owe or work out a payment plan. However, read the options before you decide. You may want to get legal advice first.OPTION 1: Pay everything you owe If you pay all the arrears and costs you owe plus the landlord's filing fee before the LTB issues an order about this application, be sure to get a receipt. Go to the hearing, where you can tell the Board what you've paid. If the landlord gave you receipts for amounts you paid, bring them to the hearing.OPTION 2: Work out a payment planIf you cannot pay everything you owe right now, you can talk to your landlord to see if they are willing to work out a payment plan. If you and the landlord agree to a payment plan, go to the hearing where you can explain the payment plan to the LTB.IF YOU DO NOT AGREE with the amount the landlord claims you owe: Talk to your landlord to see if both of you can agree on a different amount. You may want to get legal advice first.If you and your landlord agree on a different amount If you and your landlord can agree on the amount you owe, read the options above called Pay everything you owe and Work out a payment plan. You can follow one of these options, but use the different amount you and your landlord have agreed on. You should go to the hearing and tell the Member about your agreement.If you and your landlord do not agree on a different amount If you and your landlord cannot agree on the amount you owe, you should go to the hearing. At the hearing, you can explain why you disagree with the amount the landlord claims you owe. If the LTB decides that you owe money, you can ask for more time to pay it. See \"Go to the hearing\" below for more information about the hearing.Go to the hearingThe date, time and method of the hearing are shown on the Notice of Hearing that is attached to this application. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in the application. You will have an opportunity to respond to the landlord's claims. For example, you can explain why you disagree with the amount the landlord claimed you owe. You can also ask the LTB for more time to pay the money you owe. If you have paid everything you owe before the hearing, or if you and your landlord have worked out a payment plan, you can tell the LTB at the hearing.After the hearingThe LTB will make a decision and issue an order that will be sent to you by email or mail at your current address. The order will tell you what the LTB decided. You should read the order to be sure it is correct and that you understand it.For more information: You can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234 or visit the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 2 of 7 Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 3: General InformationLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressThe former tenant moved out of the rental unit ondd/mm/yyyy//Note: The tenant must have moved out of the rental unit on or after September 1, 2021. You must file this application no later than one year from the date the former tenant moved out.Former Tenant Names and Current AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First Name Tenant 2: Last Name Current AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 3 of 7 Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Related ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Part 4: Applying to Collect Money the Former Tenant May Owe YouShade the box(es) completely next to the reason(s) for which you believe the former tenant owes you money. Provide the additional information depending on your reason for applying. Reason 1: The former tenant owes:\u0141 rent that was not paid during the tenancy, and/or \u0141 compensation for each day they remained in the rental unit after the tenancy was terminated by a termination or an agreement to terminate the tenancy.The total rent and compensation the former tenant owes is:$\u0141I have calculated the amount of rent the tenant owes me as follows:Rent Period From: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy)Rent Charged $Rent Paid $Rent Owing $ Total Rent Owing $////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141 The amount of rent currently on deposit: $\u0141The date the rent deposit was collected:dd/mm/yyyy//The last rental period for which the tenant was paid interest on the rent deposit:dd/mm/yyyy//todd/mm/yyyy// Reason 2: I have bank or administration charges for NSF cheques the former tenant gave me during the tenancy.Note: The maximum administration charge you can claim for each cheque is $20.00.The total amount former tenant owes for NSF cheques is:$\u0141I have calculated the amount the former tenant owes me for NSF cheques as follows:Cheque Amount $Date of Cheque dd/mm/yyyyDate NSF Charge Incurred dd/mm/yyyyBank Charge for NSF Cheque $Landlord's Administration Charge $Total Charge $ Total NSF Related Charges Owing $\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach more sheets, if necessary.Page 4 of 7 Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 3: The former tenant did not pay utility costs (utilities means heat, electricity and water) that they were required to pay under the terms of the tenancy agreement while they were living in the rental unit.The total reasonable out-of-pocket expenses I have incurred or will incur as a result of the former tenant's failure to pay utility costs are:$\u0141I have calculated the amount the former tenant owes me for utility costs as follows:Date of Utility Bill (dd/mm/yyyy)Period Covered by Utility Bill From (dd/mm/yyyy) To (dd/mm/yyyy)Total Bill Amount $Amount Paid by Tenant $Amount Owing by Tenant $Name of Utility Provider 1:Name of Utility Provider 2:Name of Utility Provider 3: Total $//////\u0141\u0141\u0141//////\u0141\u0141\u0141//////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach more sheets, if necessary.Provide copies of the bills to the tenant and the LTB by the deadline in the Notice of Hearing or LTB Rule of Procedure 19.Add any necessary additional information about each utility expense you are claiming.Attach more sheets, if necessary. Reason 4: The former tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit willfully or negligently caused damage to the rental unit or residential complex. The former tenant must pay the reasonable costs necessary to repair or replace the damaged property.The reasonable costs I have incurred or will incur to repair or replace the damaged property is:$\u0141Please explain: What were the damages to the property? How did you calculate the costs you are claiming to repair or replace the damaged property?Attach more sheets, if necessary.Page 5 of 7 Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 5: The former tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit substantially interfered with landlord's reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest. The former tenant must pay the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses I incurred as a result of this conduct.Note: Do not select this reason if former tenant caused damage to the rental unit or residential complex or did not pay utility bills.The reasonable costs I have incurred are:$\u0141Please explain: How did the former tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit substantially interfered with your reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest? Provide details about your expenses and how they are connected to this conduct.Attach more sheets, if necessary.Part 5: Total Amount OwingTotal rent and compensation owing: (From Part 4, Reason 1)$\u0141Total NSF charges owing: (From Part 4, Reason 2)$\u0141Total utility costs owing: (From Part 4, Reason 3)$\u0141Total costs for damages owing: (From Part 4, Reason 4)$\u0141Total costs relating to substantial interference owing: (From Part 4, Reason 5)$\u0141Application Fee:$\u0141Total:$\u0141Page 6 of 7 Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes FORM L10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 6: SignatureLandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the box completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressCollecting Personal InformationThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 2. The LTB can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 3. The LTB has Rules of Procedure that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the LTB might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 7 of 7 Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Request_to_Amend_an_Order": "Request to Amend an Order (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: General InformationRequester\u2122s Information Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member Other PartyFirst NameLast NameStreet AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeDay Phone NumberEvening Phone NumberFax NumberUnit, Building or Complex Covered by this RequestStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeOther parties to the Request Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member Other PartyFirst NameLast NameStreet AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeDay Phone NumberEvening Phone NumberFax NumberIf there is more than one other party, complete a Schedule of Parties form with their names and addresses (including the unit numbers) and file it with the request.The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 3 Part 2: Reasons for Your Request I am requesting that the Board amend orderFile Number issued ondd/mm/yyyy//to correct a clerical error.Note: A clerical error includes a typing error, an error made in calculating an amount or a similar error.Explain in detail what clerical error you believe is contained in the order, and how you believe the order should be changed. Also, if the clerical error was made in a document filed with the Board by a party, clearly identify the document that contains the clerical error. If you are not a party to the order, explain how you are affected by it.Attach additional sheets if necessaryI am requesting that the Board stay the order I want amended. An order that is stayed cannot be enforced.Explain why the order should be stayed:Attach additional sheets if necessaryPage 2 of 3 Part 3: Additional InformationIndicate below if you have also filed either of the following for this order: Request for Review Notice of Appeal to Divisional CourtPart 4: SignatureSignature Requester Representative OtherFirst NameLast NameSignaturePhone NumberDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberImportant Information:1. You must make a request to amend an order within 30 days of the date the order was issued. If you are late, you must also ask for an extension of time in writing. 2. A Board member will consider your request. If the member believes there is a clerical error in the order, the member may issue an amended order without holding a hearing or seeking submissions. However, a member may request submissions from other parties or hold a hearing before making a decision. 3. Where an order is amended to correct a clerical error, amendments may also have to be made to other parts of the order, such as the termination date and/or any amounts owing. 4. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process, and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that may arise in an application. You can purchase a copy of the Rules and Guidelines from a Board office or view them online at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 6. For more information, you may call the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234, or, you may visit the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 3 of 3", "N8": "Notice to End your Tenancy at the End of the Term N8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlord I am giving you this notice because I want to end your tenancy - I want you to move out of your rental unit by the following termination date: . dd/mm/yyyy// My Reason(s) for Ending your Tenancy I have shaded the box(es) next to my reason(s) for ending your tenancy. Reason 1: You have persistently paid your rent late. Reason 2: You no longer qualify to live in public or subsidized housing. Reason 3: I made the unit available to you as a condition of your employment and your employment has ended. Reason 4: Your tenancy was created in good faith as a result of an Agreement of Purchase and Sale for a proposed condominium unit and that agreement has been terminated. Reason 5: You are occupying the unit specifically to receive rehabilitative or therapeutic services and the period of tenancy to which you agreed has ended. I can only give you a notice for this reason if no other tenant receiving rehabilitative and/or therapeutic services is allowed to live in the residential complex for more than 4 years.Details About the Reasons for this Notice I have listed below the events that have led me to give you this notice, including the dates and specific details.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The termination dateFor most types of tenancies (including monthly tenancies) the termination date must be at least 60 days after the landlord gives you this notice. Also, the termination date must be the last day of a rental period. For example, if you pay rent on the first of each month, the termination date must be the last day of the month. If the tenancy is for a fixed term (for example, a lease for one year), the termination date cannot be earlier than the last date of the fixed term. Exception: The termination date must be at least 28 days after the landlord gives you this notice if your tenancy is daily or weekly (you pay rent daily or weekly). Also, the termination date must be the last day of the rental period. For example, if you pay rent weekly each Monday, the termination date must be a Sunday. If the tenancy is for a fixed term, the termination date cannot be earlier than the last date of the fixed term.What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with what the landlord has put in this notice. However, the landlord can apply to the Board to evict you. The Board will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree.What if you move out?If you move out of the rental unit by the termination date, your tenancy ends on that date. What if the landlord applies to the Board?The landlord can apply to the Board to evict you immediately after giving you this notice. If the landlord applies to the Board to evict you, the Board will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in this Notice to End your Tenancy and in the application and you can respond to the claims your landlord makes. If the Board issues an order ending your tenancy and evicting you, the order will not require you to move out any earlier than the termination date included in this notice.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 2 of 2", "N2": "Notice of Rent Increase Unit Partially Exempt N2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. To: (Tenant's name and address) From: (Landlord's name and address) Address of the Rental Unit: Your New RentOndd/mm/yyyy//, your rent will increase to $\u0141per month week other (specify).This rent includes the basic rent for your rental unit and any amount you pay separately to your landlord for services. However, if you live in a care home, this rent does not include charges for care services or meals.Important Information About the Law1. The guideline for rent increases set by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing does not apply to tenants who live in rental units that are partially exempt from the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. In these cases, the landlord can raise the rent by any amount. 2. The landlord must give the tenant this notice at least 90 days before the date of the rent increase (where applicable). 3. A tenant does not have to sign a new lease when a fixed term tenancy ends. If the tenant decides not to sign a new lease, the tenant does not have to move, but the tenancy becomes \"month-to-month\". If a tenant plans to move, the tenant must notify the landlord on Form N9 (Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy) at least 60 days before the lease expires if the tenant has a fixed term tenancy or 60 days before the end of a monthly or yearly rental period. The tenant must notify the landlord on Form N9 at least 28 days before the end of a weekly rental period. 4. If you have any questions about the law related to rent increases and how it applies to this notice, you may contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or, you may visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb for further information.Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax Numberv. 30/11/2015", "Request_to_be_Litigation_Guardian_LTB": "Request to be a Litigation Guardian: Mental Incapacity (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)v. 22/03/2021A litigation guardian is a person who conducts the application on behalf of a person who does not have legal capacity to do so. Rule A10 of the Tribunals Ontario rules sets out the process for appointment of and responsibilities of litigation guardians. For more information about litigation guardians and the completion of this form, see the Tribunals Ontario practice direction on litigation guardians. Complete this form if you seek to be litigation guardian for a person who does not have mental capacity to make decisions in the Application for himself or herself. This Form may be filed with the Board by mail, fax or in person.Name of Person RepresentedFirst (or Given) NameLast (or Family) NameLitigation Guardian's Name and Contact InformationFirst (or Given) NameLast (or Family) NameStreet NumberStreet NameSuite/Unit/Apt.City/TownProvincePostal CodeEmailDaytime PhoneCell PhoneFaxTTYLitigation Guardian's Declaration For each declaration below please mark the box confirming the statement1. I request to act as litigation guardian for (name),a person who lacks the mental capacity to participate in this Application before the Landlord and Tenant Board.2. I declare that I am at least 18 years of age and that I understand the nature of this proceeding.3. I declare that my relationship with the person is as follows:4. I declare that:I do not have any existing substitute decision making authority for the person.ORI am a court appointed litigation guardian or substitute decision-maker for the person and have the authority to conduct this proceeding. (Please attach a copy of the document(s) authorizing you to act in this capacity, i.e. a continuing power of attorney and related document(s), or appointment under the Substitute Decisions Act, 1992, or Court order). (IF THIS APPLIES, YOU NEED NOT COMPLETE SECTIONS 5-8 OF THIS FORM.)ORI am a substitute decision maker for the person with respect to matters other than this Application. Please attach a copy of the document authorizing you to act in this capacity (i.e. a continuing power of attorney, or appointment under the Substitute Decisions Act, 1992).5. I declare that no other person has authority to be the litigation guardian for the person in this Board proceeding.Page 1 of 3 Request to be a Litigation Guardian: Mental Incapacity (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)6. I declare that:no other person has guardianship or substitute decision making powers for the person for any matters.OR (name)holds power of attorneyor guardianship for the person for other matters but this power does not apply to the conduct of this proceeding. I have provided that person or organization with a copy of all the materials related to this Application and a copy of the Social Justice Tribunals Ontario practice direction on litigation guardians.7. I declare that I believe:a. the person for whom I seek to be a litigation guardian does not have the mental capacity to make decisions about this Application on his or her own behalf; b. the person cannot understand information relevant to making the decisions to commence an Application (if applicable), delegate the power to pursue or respond to an Application, or withdraw or settle an Application and is not able to appreciate the reasonably foreseeable consequences of making or not making such decisions.8. I declare that the reasons for my belief that the person is not mentally capable of making decisions about this Application, and the nature and extent of the disability causing the mental incapacity, are as follows (attach additional pages as needed to explain the basis of the person's incapacity and evidence in support):9. I declare that I have no interest that would conflict with the interests of the person I am representing.10. I declare that I will diligently attend to the interests of the person represented and shall take all steps necessary for the protection of those interests including:a. to the extent possible, informing and consulting with the person represented about the proceedings; b. considering the impact of the proceeding upon the person represented; c. deciding whether to retain a representative and providing instructions to the representative; and d. assisting in gathering evidence to support the proceeding and putting forward the best possible case to the Board.Page 2 of 3 Request to be a Litigation Guardian: Mental Incapacity (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Signature of Litigation GuardianBy signing my name, I declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the information that is found in this form and declaration is complete and accurate.NameSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Please check this box if you are filing this form electronically. This represents your signature. You must fill out the date above.Collecting Personal Information: The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Page 3 of 3", "Landlord_Notice_to_a_New_Tenant_About_an_Order_prohibiting_a_Rent_Increase": "Landlord's Notice to a New Tenant About an Order Prohibiting a Rent Increase (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. To: (Tenant\u2122s name and Address) From: (Landlord\u2122s name and Address) Address of the Rental Unit: Part A: The rent we agreed onYou and I agreed that the rent for your rental unit would be $\u0141per month week other (specify), startingdd/mm/yyyy//.This rent includes the basic rent for the rental unit, plus any amount you pay me separately for services (such as parking or cable).Part B: The rent I am permitted to charge youI cannot charge you more than $\u0141per month week other (specify)until I complete certain repairs or other workthe Board has ordered me to do. See Part D below for the details about the work I have to do.Part C: Information about the rent I am permitted to chargeThe rent set out above in Part B is based on the rent that I was charging the former tenant of your rental unit. That tenant made an application to the Board about maintenance and, as a result of that application, the Board issued an Order Prohibiting a Rent Increase.The file number of the Board's Order is:Until I complete the required work, the Order prohibits me from: charging more than the rent set out in Part B, giving a notice of rent increase for your rental unit, or collecting an increased rent, if I had previously given a notice of rent increase before the Board issued the Order and the rent increase was supposed to take effect after the Order was issued.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Part D: The work I have to completeThe Order of the Board states that I must complete the following work before I can charge a rent that is more than the amount set out in Part B:Here is a description of the work the order requires me to do:Attach additional sheets if necessaryPart E: The rent you must pay after the work is completeOnce I complete the work, I will be allowed to charge the rent amount set out above in Part A. This is the amount we agreed that you would pay for the rental unit. I can start charging you this amount on the first day of the first rental period that begins after the day I complete the work.Signature: Landlord RepresentativeDatedd/mm/yyyy//First NameLast NameCompany Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressInformation for the Tenant from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. The Board's Order Prohibiting a Rent Increase does not affect the annual rent increase date for the rental unit. If the landlord has completed the required work, the landlord will be permitted to increase the rent 12 months after the date you moved into the rental unit, provided the landlord gives you a valid notice of rent increase at least 90 days before the increase takes effect. 2. If you have any questions about this notice or about your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234. You can also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 2 of 2", "Bulk_Application_Info_Sheet": "v. 01/03/2017 Page ofLTB Bulk Application Information Sheet (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)If you are filing 3 or more applications at the same time with the LTB (a bulk filing), complete the top part of the sheet and include this sheet with your applications.To be completed by person filing the bulk.No. of Files in Bulk:Contact Information:Name:Tel. #:Email address:Each LTB Notice of Hearing (NoH) package will include a copy of the application, NoH and LTB receipt.If you need any additional documents, check the ones you need:Point of Sale Receipt(s)Information SheetL1/L9 Update SheetIndicate how you wish to get these packages:Email the NoH packages to:(neatly print email address) orthe email address abovePick up at the LTB office where the applications were filedAddress of Rental UnitApp. Form #1.2.3.4.5.Address of Rental UnitApp. Form #6.7.8.9.10.To be completed by the LTBBulk Pick-up Contact Information:Date of contact:Staff initials:Date set for pick-up:Pick-up Information:Bulk picked up by:Date:Client initials:Staff initials:Packages Emailed:Date:Staff initials:Date Received Stamp", "N5": "Notice to End your Tenancy For Interfering with Others, Damage or Overcrowding N5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlord I am giving you this notice because I want to end your tenancy - I want you to move out of your rental unit by the following termination date: .dd/mm/yyyy//My Reason(s) for Ending your TenancyI have shaded the box(es) next to my reason(s) for ending your tenancy. I have also indicated whether this notice is your first or second Notice to End your Tenancy. Reason 1:Your behaviour or the behaviour of someone visiting or living with you has substantially interfered with another tenant's or my: \u0141 reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex, and/or \u0141 lawful rights, privileges, or interests. You have 7 days to stop the activities or correct the behaviour described on page 2 and avoid eviction. You will not have to move out if you correct the behaviour described on page 2 within 7 days after receiving this notice. However, if you do not correct the behaviour within 7 days, I can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. I can apply to the Board immediately for an order to evict you. This is your second Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months for a reason with a 7-day correction period. You cannot void this notice and I can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. Reason 2: You or someone visiting or living with you has wilfully or negligently damaged the rental unit or the residential complex. You have 7 days to correct the problem(s) described on page 2 and avoid eviction. You will not have to move out if you correct the problem(s) within 7 days after receiving this notice. However, if you do not correct the problem(s) within 7 days, I can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. You can correct the problem(s) by: \u0141 repairing the damaged property. or \u0141 paying me $ \u0141, which is how much I estimate it will cost to repair the damaged property. or \u0141 replacing the damaged property, if it is not reasonable to repair it. v. 2018/01Page 1 of 3 or \u0141 paying me $\u0141, which is how much I estimate it will cost to replace the damaged property if it is not reasonable to repair it.or \u0141 making arrangements acceptable to me to either: \u0141 repair or replace the damaged property, or \u0141 pay me what I estimate it will cost to repair or replace the damaged property. I can apply to the Board immediately for an order to evict you. This is your second Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months for a reason with a 7-day correction period. You cannot void this notice and I can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. Reason 3: There are more people living in your rental unit than is permitted by health, safety or housing standards. You have 7 days to reduce the number of people living in the rental unit toYou will not have to move out if you reduce the number of people living in the rental unit within 7 days after receiving this notice. However, if you do not reduce the number of people living in the rental unit within 7 days, I can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. I can apply to the Board immediately for an order to evict you. This is your second Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months for a reason with a 7-day correction period. You cannot void this notice and I can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. Details About the Reasons for this Notice I have listed below the events that have led me to give you this notice, including the dates, times and specific details. Date/Time Details of the EventsImportant Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The termination dateIf this is your first N5 Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months, the termination date on page 1 must be at least 20 days after the landlord gave you this notice. If this is your second N5 Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months, the termination date on page 1 must be at least 14 days after the landlord gave you this notice. Note: A landlord cannot give you a second N5 Notice to End your Tenancy unless at least 7 days have passed since the first N5 notice was given.Page 2 of 3 If you agree with what the landlord has put in this notice, and this is your first Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months, you should correct the problem(s) described on page 2 within 7 days after receiving this notice. If you do, the landlord cannot apply to the Board to evict you based on this notice. The landlord can apply to the Board to evict you if: \u0141 you do not correct the problem(s) within 7 days, or \u0141 this is your second Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months. If the landlord applies to evict you, you do not have to move out. The Board will schedule a hearing which you can attend. However, if the landlord applies to the Board to evict you and the Board orders eviction, you will likely have to pay the landlord's filing fee.What if you agree with the notice? What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with what the landlord has put in this notice. However, the landlord can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. The Board will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree. What if you move out? If you move out of the rental unit by the termination date, your tenancy ends on that date. However, if your landlord gave you this notice because you damaged the rental unit or the residential complex, you may still owe the landlord money for the damage. What if the landlord applies to the Board?If the landlord applies to the Board to evict you, the Board will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in this notice and in the application and you can respond to the claims your landlord makes.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 3 of 3", "L5": "Application for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline FORM L5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Landlords Use this form to apply to have the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) issue an order allowing a rent increase of more than the guideline for any or all of the rental units in the residential complex. Instructions for Form L5 are available on the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select your reason(s) for applying for a rent increase above the guideline. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 2. Complete the appropriate schedules, depending on your reason(s) for applying. 3. File all pages of the application (not including this page), and the appropriate schedules with the LTB. Also file evidence of all the costs you claimed in the application and proof that you paid for those costs. 4. If you are applying because you did capital expenditure work in the residential complex, file the following additional documents with the LTB: \u0141 1 additional photocopy of the application, \u0141 1 additional photocopy of all the supporting documents you filed with the LTB (including supporting documents related to operating costs, if you also applied because your operating costs increased), \u0141 An electronic copy of the supporting documents. 5. Your L5 application fee is $233 for the first 10 units and $10 for each additional unit to a maximum of $1000. The LTB will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. 6. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you will need additional services at the hearing. 7. The LTB will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 8. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline FORM L5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressAddress of the Residential Complex Covered by this Application Street NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenants' Names and AddressesComplete a Schedule of Parties form with the names and addresses, including unit numbers, of the tenants in the rental units covered by the application. Rent Information What is the date of the first rent increase you intend to take for the rental units covered by the application?dd/mm/yyyy//Previous Order If the LTB previously issued an order for a rent increase above the guideline, fill in the file numberOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 4 Application for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline FORM L5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASONS FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each reason on which you are basing this application. I am applying for a rent increase above the guideline because: Reason 1: The municipal taxes and charges for the residential complex increased by an \"extraordinary\" amount, Reason 2: Operating costs for security services for the residential complex have been experienced for the first time or have increased, Reason 3: Capital expenditure work was done in the residential complex.Units included in the applicationWhat is the total number of rental units in the complex?How many rental units are covered by the application? PART 3: OUTSTANDING ELEVATOR WORKAnswer the following questions.Has a work order been issued that relates to one or more elevators in the residential complex? Yes NoIf yes, has the work been completed? Yes NoHas an order been made under section 21 of the Technical Standards and Safety Act, 2000 relating to elevators? Yes NoIf yes, has the work been completed? Yes NoHas the LTB issued an order requiring you to do specified repairs or replacements to one or more elevators? Yes NoIf yes, has the work been completed? Yes NoIf you indicated that any of the work has not been completed, you must complete a \"Summary of Outstanding Elevator Work\" and attach it to your application.Page 2 of 4 Application for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline FORM L5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: SIGNATURELandlord/Legal Representative's SignatureWho has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer.dd/mm/yyyy// Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 3 of 4Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free). Application for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline FORM L5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. The landlord must file this application at least 90 days before the date they intend to take the first rent increase for the rental units covered by the application. 2. Along with the application, the landlord must file evidence of the operating costs claimed in the application. They must also file proof that they have paid for those costs. If the landlord is applying for Reason #3, the landlord must also file a copy of the Capital Expenditures: Additional Details form for each capital expenditure item claimed in the application. 3. If the landlord is applying for Reason #3, the landlord must make the documents described above available to the tenants of the rental units covered by the application. \u0141 If the landlord has an office in or close to the residential complex, the landlord must allow the tenants to view a copy of the supporting documents during normal business hours. \u0141 The landlord is required to provide the LTB with an electronic copy of the supporting documents. \u0141 The landlord must provide an electronic copy of the supporting documents to a tenant who requests it, at no charge. \u0141 If the landlord and tenant agree, the landlord may provide photocopies of all the supporting documents at a reasonable charge based on the landlord's out-of-pocket costs for making the copies. 4. You can ask the LTB to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at LTB offices and at the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 5. You can ask the LTB to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the LTB to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at LTB offices and at the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 6. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 7. The LTB can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 8. The LTB has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the LTB might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from an LTB office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 4 of 4 Schedule 1 Details of Operating CostsIf you are applying for Reasons 1 and/or 2, you must fill out this schedule. See the L5 instructions for further information. A. Municipal Taxes and ChargesIn the table below, fill in the annual accounting periods and the costs you are claiming for each period. See the L5 instructions for information about how to determine the accounting periods. Accounting Periods Reference Year: yyyy Base Year: yyyyCostsShade the circle completely to show whether or not the costs affect all the rental units in the complex. These costs affect all of the rental units in the complex. These costs affect some, but not all of the rental units in the complex.Did you receive any refunds, rebates, grants or other types of financial assistance for this cost category for the reference year or the base year indicated above? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Yes NoIf yes, indicate the source of the assistance, the total amount and the period to which it applies.SourcePeriod From (dd/mm/yyyy) To (dd/mm/yyyy)Total Amount $Attach additional sheets if necessaryDid you take these amounts into account when you determined the costs for the reference year and the base year indicated above? Yes No Page of Schedule 1 Details of Operating CostsB. Security ServicesIn the table below, fill in the annual accounting periods and the costs you are claiming for each period. See the L5 instructions for information about how to determine the accounting periods.Accounting PeriodsReference Year (dd/mm/yyyy) From: To:Base Year (dd/mm/yyyy) From: To: Security ServicesShade the circle completely next to your answer. Page of The costs in all the categories above affect all of the rental units in the complex. The costs in one or more of the categories listed above affect some, but not all of the rental units in the complex. C. Do any of the operating cost categories (municipal taxes and charges or security services) relate to non-residential portions of the complex or to other residential complexes? Yes NoIf yes, list the category and provide details below of how you propose costs should be allocated. See the L5 instructions for further information. Attach additional sheets if necessary Schedule 1 Details of Operating CostsD. Information about Units Affected by Operating CostsYou must provide the following information about rental units affected by increased operating costs for municipal taxes or security services. Operating Costs Categories Column 1 Units that are affected by the cost category and are covered by this application (list unit numbers) Column 2 Total rent charged for units listed in Column 1 Column 3 Total rent charged for all rental units in the complex affected by the operating costMunicipal taxes and chargesSecurity Services Page of Schedule 2 Details of Capital ExpendituresA. Description and CostsIf you are applying for reason #3 you must fill out this schedule. If you are applying for more than five capital expenditure items, complete additional copies of this schedule. See the L5 instructions for further information. Item #Description of Capital ExpendituresDate Completed (dd/mm/yyyy)Useful Life Labour / Material and Contract CostsLandlord's Own Labour (Hours x Rate = Total)Total CostsAttach additional sheets if necessaryFor each capital expenditure item you are claiming, indicate why you believe it is \"eligible\" under s.126(7) of the RTA.Item #Provide explanation as to why the item is \"eligible\"Attach additional sheets if necessary Page of Schedule 2 Details of Capital ExpendituresB. Is the cost for each capital expenditure to be applied to all of the rental units in the residential complex? If not, complete the table below.Item #List the unit numbers in the complex that the capital expenditure item should NOT be applied to. Be sure to also include units that are not covered by this application.Attach additional sheets if necessaryC. Are any of the capital expenditure items listed in section A a major repair or replacement of a system or thing that already existed? If yes, complete the table below.Item #Did the item require replacement or major repair?If yes, explain why. Also indicate when the item was last replaced or repaired. If no, explain how the item provides access for persons with disabilities; promotes energy or water conservation; or maintains or improves security.YesNoYesNoYesNoYesNoYesNoAttach additional sheets if necessary Page of Schedule 2 Details of Capital ExpendituresD. Did you receive any money from an insurer, government grants, forgivable loans or other assistance, or proceeds from trade-in, salvage or resale for any capital expenditure item(s)? Yes NoIf yes, list the item number, the source of the funds, and the amount you received below.Item # Source of fundsTotal AmountAttach additional sheets if necessaryE. Do any of the capital expenditures relate to non-residential portions of the complex or to other residential complexes? Yes NoIf yes, list the item and provide details below of how you propose costs should be allocated. See the L5 instructions for further information.Attach additional sheets if necessary Page of Information about Rental Units in the Complex If you are applying for Reason #3, you must provide the following information for each rental unit in the residential complex, including units not covered by the application, vacant units or units that are not rented. If necessary, attach additional copies of this schedule. See the L5 instructions for further information.Unit numberUnit not covered by application (Place an \"X\" in this column if the unit is not covered by the application)Total current rent (Place \"$0.00\" in this column if the unit is vacant or not rented) Frequency of Rent (per month/week, etc.)Date current tenancy began (dd/mm/yyyy) (Complete only if the tenancy began less than 18 months before the deadline to file the application) Page of Capital Expenditures: Additional Details Item number and description of work: Total labour, material & contract costs claimed in application for this item (not including landlord's own labour)*: $ Date work completed: Name of contractor /supplierInvoice/ bill numberInvoice/ bill date (dd/mm/yyyy)Invoice/ bill amount $Method of paymentCheque numberPayment amount $Payment date (dd/mm/yyyy)Amount related to this item $Total*: $ Remarks: Page of Summary of Outstanding Elevator WorkFill out the following information and attach this summary to your Application for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline if in Part 3 of the application you indicated that there is any work related to elevators that was ordered and is not yet complete. You must complete this summary even if the deadline for doing the work has not yet passed.Name of person or entity who issued the work order Date of work order (dd/mm/yyyy)Compliance date for work to be completed (dd/mm/yyyy)Description of the work that was ordered to be done Page of Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need? Page of Payment Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:CashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardMoney orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Credit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:Important: The information you fill in is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on the application file.OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "L2": "Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for LandlordsUse Form L2 to apply for an order to: \u0141 end a tenancy and evict a tenant after you give the tenant one of the following Notices to End your Tenancy: N5, N6, N7, N8, N12 or N13, \u0141 end a tenancy and evict a tenant because the tenant abandoned the rental unit, or because the tenant is a superintendent whose employment ended, \u0141 collect money you believe the tenant owes you for: \u0141 remaining in the rental unit after the termination date, \u0141 NSF cheques the tenant gave you, \u0141 damaging the rental unit, \u0141 unpaid utility bills, \u0141 costs that you incurred because the tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit substantially interfered with your reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest, \u0141 misrepresenting income in social housing. Instructions for this application are available at the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Select your language preference (French or English). If you require accommodation complete a Tribunals Ontario Accommodation Request form. 2. Complete this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you (your name, etc.), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application if you are applying to end a tenancy. \u0141 Part 3 asks, if you are applying to collect money the tenant owes you, to: \u0141 select and explain the reasons for your application, and \u0141 show how you calculated the amount you believe the tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 3. Complete Schedule A if you are applying to end a tenancy and evict a tenant based on a Form N13: Notice to End Your Tenancy at the End of the Term Because the Landlord Wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use. 4. Complete Schedule B if you are applying to end a tenancy and evict a tenant based on a Form N12: Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord, a Purchaser or a Family Member Requires the Rental Unit. 5. File all pages of the application with the LTB (not including this page) no more than 30 days after the termination date set out in the notice you gave to the tenant. If you gave the tenant a Notice to End your Tenancy, include a copy of the notice you gave the tenant and a Certificate of Service showing how and when you gave the tenant the Notice to End your Tenancy. The LTB will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)6. Pay the application fee of $201 to the LTB at the same time as you file the application (or $186 if you e-File). The LTB will not process your application unless you pay the fee. You can use LTB e-File to file your application. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can pay by credit card, certified cheque or money order. If you e-File the application, you must pay by credit card or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. If you cannot afford the fee, you can submit a Fee Waiver Request. 7. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Language PreferenceThe LTB offers services in both French and English.What is your preferred language?FrenchEnglishIf you are the respondent and want French Language Services, complete the Request for French Language Services form and send it by email or mail to the LTB office handling this file.AccommodationAccommodations are arrangements to allow everyone, regardless of their abilities, to participate fully in the LTB's process. If you require accommodation complete the Accommodation Request form and email or mail it to the LTB office that is handling this file. The form and more information about accommodation is available at tribunalsontario.ca/en/accessibility-and-diversity/.Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters.Part 1: General InformationAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 01/09/2021Page 1 of 7 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressTenant Names and Current AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First Name Tenant 2: Last Name Mailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 7 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Is the Tenant Still in Possession of the Rental Unit? The tenant must be in possession of the rental unit when you file this application, unless you are applying for Reason 2 (because you believe the tenant abandoned the rental unit). Shade the appropriate circle completely to answer whether the tenant is still in possession of the rental unit on the date you file this application. Yes No If you answer no, you cannot file this application unless you are applying for Reason 2.If the tenant moved out of the rental unit in the past year and you want to collect money you believe the former tenant owes, you may be able to file an Application to Collect Money a Former Tenant Owes (Form L10).Part 2: Applying to End a TenancyIf you want the LTB to end the tenancy and evict the tenant, shade the box completely next to your reason for applying. I am applying to evict the tenant because: Reason 1: I gave the tenant one of the following Notices to End your Tenancy.Shade the box(es) completely next to the notice(s) you gave the tenant and on which you are basing this application. Also indicate the termination date in the Notice to End your Tenancy in the space provided.Notice N5: Notice to End your Tenancy for Interfering with Others, Damage or Overcrowding.Notice N6: Notice to End your Tenancy for Illegal Acts or Misrepresenting Income in a Rent-Geared-to-Income Rental Unit.Notice N7: Notice to End your Tenancy for Causing Serious Problems in the Rental Unit or Residential Complex.Notice N8: Notice to End your Tenancy at the End of the Term.Notice N12: Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord, a Purchaser or a Family Member Requires the Rental Unit.Notice N13: Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord Wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use.What is the termination date in the notice you selected above? dd/mm/yyyy// Reason 2: I believe the tenant abandoned the rental unit.The tenant must owe arrears of rent for the LTB to determine that the tenant abandoned the rental unit.Please explain: Why do you believe the tenant abandoned the rental unit? Attach more sheets, if necessary.Page 3 of 7 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 3: The tenant occupies a superintendent's unit and their employment as superintendent ended.The tenant's employment ended on:dd/mm/yyyy//Part 3: Applying to Collect Money the Tenant May Owe YouShade the box(es) completely next to the reason(s) for which you believe the tenant owes you money. Provide the additional information depending on your reason for applying. Also, provide information about the tenant's rent and the rent deposit to help the LTB determine how much the tenant may owe you. Note: you cannot use this application to collect money for rent arrears the tenant may owe you. Reason 1: The tenant must pay for each day they stay in the rental unit after the termination date in the notice of termination. Reason 2: The tenant must pay the bank charges and related administration charges for NSF cheques the tenant gave me. Note: the maximum administration charge you can claim for each cheque is $20.00.The total amount the tenant owes for NSF cheques is: $\u0141I have calculated the amount the tenant owes me for NSF cheques as follows:Cheque Amount $Date of Cheque dd/mm/yyyyDate NSF Charge Incurred dd/mm/yyyyBank Charge for NSF Cheque $Landlord's Administration Charge $Total Charge $ Total NSF Related Charges Owing $\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach more sheets, if necessary.Information about the tenant's rent and rent depositYou must provide the following information to help the LTB determine the amount of money the tenant may owe you. The current rent is: $\u0141 The amount of rent currently on deposit: $\u0141The date the rent deposit was collected:dd/mm/yyyy//The last rental period for which the tenant was paid interest on the rent deposit:dd/mm/yyyy//todd/mm/yyyy//Page 4 of 7 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 3: The tenant did not pay utility costs (utilities means heat, electricity and water) that they were required to pay under the terms of the tenancy agreement while they were living in the rental unit.The total reasonable out-of-pocket expenses I have incurred or will incur as a result of the tenant's failure to pay utility costs are:$\u0141I have calculated the amount the tenant owes me for utility costs as follows:Date of Utility Bill (dd/mm/yyyy)Period Covered by Utility Bill From (dd/mm/yyyy) To (dd/mm/yyyy)Total Bill Amount $Amount Paid by Tenant $Amount Owing by Tenant $Name of Utility Provider 1:Name of Utility Provider 2:Name of Utility Provider 3: Total $//////\u0141\u0141\u0141//////\u0141\u0141\u0141//////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach more sheets, if necessary.Provide copies of the bills to the tenant and the LTB before the hearing. See the Notice of Hearing or LTB Rule of Procedure 19 for the deadline to disclose evidence.Add any necessary additional information about each utility expense you are claiming.Attach more sheets, if necessary. Reason 4: The tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit willfully or negligently caused damage to the rental unit or residential complex. The tenant must pay the reasonable costs necessary to repair or replace the damaged property.The reasonable costs I have incurred or will incur to repair or replace the damaged property is:$\u0141Please explain: What were the damages to the property? How did you calculate the costs you are claiming to repair or replace the damaged property?Page 5 of 7 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 5: The tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit substantially interfered with landlord's reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest. The tenant must pay the reasonable out-of-pocket expenses I incurred as a result of this conduct. Note: Do not select this reason if the tenant caused damage to the rental unit or residential complex or did not pay utility bills.The reasonable costs I have incurred are: $\u0141Please explain: How did the tenant or someone else visiting or living in the rental unit substantially interfere with your reasonable enjoyment or lawful right, privilege or interest? Provide details about your expenses and how they are connected to this conduct. Reason 6: The tenant lives in a rent-geared-to-income rental unit and has misrepresented their income or that of family members living in the rental unit. The tenant must pay the additional amount they would have been required to pay had they not misrepresented their income.The tenant must pay me: $\u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the additional amount you are claiming the tenant owes?Part 4: Total Amount OwingTotal NSF charges owing: (From Part 3, Reason 2)$\u0141Total Utility costs owing: (From Part 3, Reason 3)$\u0141Total costs for damages owing: (From Part 3, Reason 4)$\u0141Total costs relating to substantial interference owing: (From Part 3, Reason 5)$\u0141Total costs for misrepresentation of income: (From Part 3, Reason 6)$\u0141Application Fee:$\u0141Total:$\u0141Page 6 of 7 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant or Collect Money FORM L2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 5: SignatureLandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the box completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressCollecting Personal InformationThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 2. The LTB can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 3. The LTB has Rules of Procedure that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the LTB might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 7 of 7 Schedule A \u0152 Additional Information Ending a Tenancy for Demolition, Repairs or Conversion to Another Use (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)You must complete this Schedule if you are applying to end a tenancy and evict a tenant based on an N13: Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord Wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use.Part A: Permits The LTB will not issue an order ending the tenancy and evicting a tenant unless you have obtained all permits required to do the work or have taken all reasonable steps to obtain the permits. Shade the box below completely to indicate whether you have obtained the permits. Have you obtained the necessary building permits to do the work? Yes NoIf you answered \"yes\", provide copies of the permits to the tenant and the LTB before the hearing. If you answered \"no\", you must obtain the necessary permits or have taken all reasonable steps to obtain the permits by the date of the hearing. If you have not done so, the LTB may dismiss your application. If you have obtained the permits by the date of the hearing, provide copies to the tenant and the LTB.Part B: CompensationThe LTB will not issue an order ending the tenancy and evicting the tenant unless you have compensated the tenant or offered them another rental unit that is acceptable to them. The compensation must be paid on or before the termination date on the N13 Notice. In most situations, you must pay the tenant compensation equal to one months' rent if the complex has fewer than 5 units and compensation equal to 3 months' rent if the complex has 5 or more units. Different rules apply if the tenant intends to move back into the rental unit after repairs or renovations have been completed. See the instructions for more information. Answer the questions below to indicate how you have compensated the tenant.I gave the tenant $\u0141in compensation on .dd/mm/yyyy//I offered the tenant another rental unit and the tenant accepted it.If the rental unit is in a care home, you must make reasonable efforts to find alternative accommodation for the tenant that is appropriate to their care needs.I will give the tenant $\u0141in compensation. I understand that this must be paid no later than the termination date in the N13 Notice.Exception: You are not required to compensate the tenant or offer them another rental unit if you were ordered to demolish the rental unit or to do the repairs under a municipal property standards by-law or by another authority. Shade the box below completely if this applies to your situation.I was ordered to demolish the rental unit or to do the repairs under a municipal property standards by-law or by another authority.Page __ of __ Schedule A \u0152 Additional Information Ending a Tenancy for Demolition, Repairs or Conversion to Another Use (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part C: Previous N12 or N13 NoticesIf you have given any other N12 or N13 Notices in the past two years for this rental unit or any other rental unit you must complete the chart and provide all the requested information for each notice:Date the Notice was Served dd/mm/yyyyAddress of the Rental UnitIntended occupant (N12) or Intended activity (N13)LTB File # (where applicable)//////Attach more sheets, if necessary.I have not given any other N12 or N13 Notices in the past two years for this rental unit or any other rental unit.Part D: Tenant's Right of First RefusalA tenant who receives a N13 Notice for the purpose of repairs or renovations may have a right of first refusal. If a tenant exercises this right when the repairs or renovations are completed, they may reoccupy the rental unit at a rent that is no more than what the landlord could have lawfully charged if there was no interruption in the tenancy. A tenant who wishes to have a right of first refusal must give the landlord notice in writing before vacating the rental unit and must inform the landlord in writing of any change of address.Page __ of __ Schedule B \u0152 Additional Information Ending a Tenancy for Landlord's or Purchaser's Own Use (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)You must complete this schedule if you are applying to end a tenancy and evict a tenant based on a reason in Form N12: Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord, a Purchaser or a Family Member Requires the Rental Unit. The reasons in the N12 are: \u0141 the landlord, landlord's immediate family or a person providing care services to the landlord or family member requires the rental unit for residential occupation, or \u0141 the landlord has entered into an agreement of purchase and sale of the rental unit and the purchaser, the purchaser's immediate family or a person providing care services to the purchaser or family member requires possession of the rental unit for residential occupation. Immediate family members of a landlord or purchaser are: a spouse, their parents or their children.Part A: CompensationThe LTB will not issue an order ending the tenancy and evicting the tenant unless you have compensated the tenant in an amount equal to one month's rent or offered them another rental unit that is acceptable to them. The compensation must be paid on or before the termination date on the N12 Notice. See the instructions for more information. Answer the questions below to indicate how you have compensated the tenant.I gave the tenant $\u0141in compensation on .dd/mm/yyyy//I offered the tenant another rental unit and the tenant accepted it.I will give the tenant $\u0141in compensation. I understand that this must be paid no later than the termination date in the N12 Notice.Part B: DeclarationYou must also submit to the LTB a declaration signed by the person who wants to move into the unit. In the declaration, the person who intends to move in must say that they, in good faith, require the rental unit for their own use for a period of at least one year. The declaration must be submitted with this application. The LTB will not accept your application without the declaration. Instead of a declaration you can file a sworn affidavit. The affidavit must be sworn or affirmed before a Notary Public or Commissioner of Oaths.Page __ of __ Schedule B \u0152 Additional Information Ending a Tenancy for Landlord's or Purchaser's Own Use (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part C: Previous N12 or N13 NoticesIf you have given any other N12 or N13 Notices in the past two years for this rental unit or any other rental unit you must complete the chart and provide all the requested information for each notice:Date the Notice was Served dd/mm/yyyyAddress of the Rental UnitIntended occupant (N12) or Intended activity (N13)LTB File # (where applicable)//////Attach more sheets, if necessary.I have not given any other N12 or N13 Notices in the past two years for this rental unit or any other rental unit.Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "L7": "Application to Transfer a Care Home Tenant FORM L7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for LandlordsUse this form to apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board to transfer a tenant from a care home because the tenant requires: \u0141 less care than the care home provides, or \u0141 more care than the care home provides. Instructions for Form L7 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by the application, \u0141 you (your name, etc), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 the tenant\u2122s representative or their substitute decision maker (if they have one), \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select the reason for your application and explain why you think that the tenant requires either less or more care provided than the care home provides. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application (not including this page) with the Board. The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee of $201 to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Once you file this application with the Board, a Board mediator will call both you and the tenant about resolving the application by a mediated agreement. If you don\u2122t agree to try mediation, the Board may dismiss your application. 6. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll-free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application to Transfer a Care Home Tenant FORM L7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 5 Application to Transfer a Care Home Tenant FORM L7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Tenant Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 tenant, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 5Tenant's Representative / Substitute Decision MakerFirst NameLast NameStreet AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail Address Application to Transfer a Care Home Tenant FORM L7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASON FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the circle completely next to your reason for applying to transfer the tenant from the care home. I am applying to the Board for an order to transfer the tenant from the care home because: Reason 1: The tenant does not require as much care as the care home provides In the box below, describe: \u0141 the minimum level of care provided in the care home, \u0141 why the tenant requires less than this level of care.Please explain: Be as specific as possible. Attach more sheets, if necessary Reason 2: The tenant requires a higher level of care than the care home can provide, even with additional care services available from service providers in the community In the box below describe: \u0141 the level of care service provided in the care home, \u0141 why the tenant\u2122s needs cannot be met with this level of service, \u0141 what care services are available from community based service providers, and \u0141 why the tenant\u2122s needs cannot be met if care services are provided by both the care home and community service providers.Please explain: Be as specific as possible. Attach more sheets, if necessaryPage 3 of 5 Application to Transfer a Care Home Tenant FORM L7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Shade the circle completely to answer whether other appropriate accommodation is available for the tenant at this time Yes NoIf yes: \u0141 provide the name and the address of the facility that will provide accommodation to the tenant \u0141 explain what arrangements have been made with the facility to transfer the tenant.Please explain: Be as specific as possible. Attach more sheets, if necessary PART 3: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 4 of 5 Application to Transfer a Care Home Tenant FORM L7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. Once the landlord files this application with the Board, a Board mediator will call both the landlord and the tenant about resolving the application by a mediated agreement. The Board may dismiss the application if the landlord refuses to try mediation to resolve the application. If the landlord and tenant do not resolve the application by mediation, the Board will hold a hearing. 4. If the tenant requires a higher level of care, the Board will not issue an order to transfer the tenant unless it is satisfied that: \u00b7 the tenant's care needs cannot be met by care services provided by both the care home and community service providers, and \u00b7 other appropriate accommodation is available for the tenant. 5. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 6. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 5 of 5 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N6": "Notice to End your Tenancy For Illegal Acts or Misrepresenting Income in a Rent-Geared-to-Income Rental Unit N6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlord I am giving you this notice because I want to end your tenancy - I want you to move out of your rental unit by the following termination date: .dd/mm/yyyy// I can apply to the Board immediately for an order to evict you. See Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board on Page 2.My Reason(s) for Ending your Tenancy I have shaded the box(es) next to my reason(s) for ending your tenancy. Reason 1 I believe that you or someone living with you has committed an illegal act or is carrying on an illegal business at the residential complex involving: \u0141 the production of an illegal drug, \u0141 trafficking in an illegal drug, \u0141 possession of an illegal drug for the purposes of trafficking. or I believe that you or someone living with you has permitted someone else to carry out one or more of the above illegal activities involving drugs in the residential complex. Reason 2 I believe that you or someone living with you has committed an illegal act or is carrying on an illegal business at the residential complex (other than an illegal act or business described in Reason 1), or I believe that you or someone living with you has permitted someone else to commit an illegal act or carry on an illegal business at the residential complex (other than an illegal act or business described in Reason 1). Reason 3 You live in a rent-geared-to-income rental unit and I believe that you have misrepresented your income or the income of family members who live in the rental unit.v. 2018/01Page 1 of 3 Details About the Reasons for this Notice I have listed below the events that have led me to give you this notice, including the dates, times and specific details. Date/Time Details of the EventsImportant Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The termination date The termination date is different depending on your landlord's reason for giving you this notice and whether this is your first or second Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months. For Reason 1, the termination date the landlord sets out in this notice must be at least 10 days after the landlord gives you this notice. For Reasons 2 and 3, \u0141 If this is your first Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months, the termination date must be at least 20 days after the landlord gave you this notice. \u0141 If this is your second Notice to End your Tenancy in the past 6 months and the first notice had a 7 day correction period, the termination date must be at least 14 days after the landlord gives you this notice. What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with what the landlord has put in this notice. However, the landlord can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. The Board will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree. What if you move out?If you move out of the rental unit by the termination date, your tenancy ends on that date. However, if your landlord gave you this notice because you misrepresented your income or the income of family members living in the rental unit, you may still owe the landlord money for the amount you would have been required to pay if you had not misrepresented your income. What if the landlord applies to the Board?If the landlord applies to the Board to evict you, the Board will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in this Notice to End your Tenancy and in the application and you can respond to the claims your landlord makes.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 2 of 3 Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 3 of 3", "N15_-_Tenant_Statement": "Tenant\u2122s Statement About Sexual or Domestic Violence and Abuse (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)To: (Landlord's Name)From: (Tenant's Name)Address of Rental Unit: Reason for giving the notice to end my tenancy (Form N15): I or a child living with me has been a victim of domestic or sexual violence and/or abuse and we must move out of the rental unit. I believe we may be at risk of harm or injury if I continue to live here, based on one or both of the following reason(s): One of these people: \u0141 my spouse or my former spouse \u0141 someone I live with, or lived with in a conjugal relationship \u0141 a person that I am dating or I used to date \u0141 someone who lives in my unit that is related to me or the child by blood, marriage or adoption has caused me or a child living with me: \u0141 to suffer bodily harm or damage to our property by intentional or reckless behaviour or actions. \u0141 to fear for our safety because of their behaviour and actions or threatened actions. \u0141 to be held by force against our will. \u0141 to fear for our safety because of a series of actions, including following, contacting, communicating with, watching, or recording us. AND/OR I or a child living with me was a victim of sexual violence as defined in section 47.3(2) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006.Signature:Date: (dd/mm/yyyy)Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The information must be the truthIt is against the law for a tenant to give a landlord this statement if it does not apply to the tenant's situation. It is an offence and they could be taken to court. If they are found guilty, the tenant could be fined up to $35,000.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB). You can reach the LTB by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.v. 01/04/2020", "T3": "Tenant Application for a Rent Reduction FORM T3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants Use this form to apply to have the Board determine whether your rent should be reduced because: \u0141 your landlord has reduced a service or facility that was previously provided to your unit or to the residential complex, or has stopped providing it (it was discontinued), \u0141 the municipal taxes and charges for the residential complex you live in have decreased. Instructions for Form T3 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, your landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select the reasons for your application and provide the information required for those reasons. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you will need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T3 application fee is $53 for the first unit and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Tenant Application for a Rent Reduction FORM T3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 5 Tenant Application for a Rent Reduction FORM T3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: REASONS FOR FILING THIS APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying to the Board. Reason 1: My landlord has reduced or discontinued a service or facility in the last 12 months. Answer the questions below about your rent and about when the service or facility was reduced or discontinued. Information about the Service or Facility Describe the Service or Facility The service or facility was: Reduced Discontinued The change happened on this date:dd/mm/yyyy//dd/mm/yyyy//dd/mm/yyyy//Page 2 of 5 Tenant Application for a Rent Reduction FORM T3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Rent History: When did you move into the rental unit covered by the application?dd/mm/yyyy//In the table below provide information about the rent you have paid in the past 12 months. Rent Amount Fill in each different rent amount you paid: \u0141 in the 12 months before you filed this application, OR \u0141 since you moved in (if you moved in less than 12 months ago). Rent Period \u0141 Under From, fill in the date you started to pay each rent amount, and \u0141 Under To, fill in the last date of the rental period you were charged each rent amount.Rent Amount $ (per month / per week)Rent PeriodFrom: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy) $\u0141//// $\u0141//// $\u0141//// $\u0141////I am required to pay rent by the month week other (specify) Reason 2: The municipal taxes and charges for the residential complex have decreased.The Base Year is the calendar year in which the municipal tax decrease took effect. The Reference Year is the calendar year before the Base Year. Calendar Year Base Year yyyy Reference Year yyyy Total property taxes for the complex $\u0141 $\u0141You must attach evidence of the amount of property taxes charged by the municipality for both the Base and Reference Years. Page 3 of 5 Tenant Application for a Rent Reduction FORM T3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: SIGNATURETenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal Representative Information About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 4 of 5 Tenant Application for a Rent Reduction FORM T3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office. OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 5 of 5 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of__ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Request_for_Hearing_Recording": "Request for Hearing Recording (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Although the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 does not require it, proceedings before the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) are usually recorded. If requested, the LTB will do a search for a hearing recording and will provide a copy of it for a fee. No guarantee of the existence or quality of the recording can be provided. A request for a hearing recording should be made within ten years of the hearing date. The recording will be erased after this time. This request for a hearing recording must be accompanied by a $16.15 fee for each copy of the hearing recording that is requested.Requester\u2122s Information: Landlord Tenant Representative OtherName:Address:Phone Number:Hearing Information:File Number:Hearing Date(s):Hearing Location:Hearing Recording Fee:Number of copies required:X 16.15 = $Select how you are paying the hearing recording fee:CashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardMoney orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must provide the credit card information on the next page.Indicate below how you want the LTB to give you the hearing recording: Pick up at the LTB office Mail to the address indicated above(If the hearing was recorded, a copy should be available within one week.)Requester\u2122s Signature:Date:IMPORTANT INFORMATION The Landlord and Tenant Board records hearings digitally using the WAV file format. The recording in this format can be played on any PC or Mac with a sound card and the appropriate software such as Windows Media Player or any player that reads the WAV format.v. 01/09/2019 Credit Card InformationYou must complete the following information if you are paying by credit card and you are not paying in person at an LTB office. The information you fill in on this page is confidential. It will be used to process your request but it will not be placed on file.Credit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N14_-_Landlord's_Notice_to_the_Spouse_of_the_Tenant_who_Vacated_the_Rental_Unit": "Landlord\u2122s Notice to the Spouse of the Tenant who Vacated the Rental Unit N14 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)What is the N14 notice?The N14 notice is a Board approved form that landlords can give to the spouse of a tenant, if the tenant moved out of a rental unit without giving notice. The N14 notice informs the spouse of what they must do if they want to stay in the rental unit and become the tenant. Exception: If the rental unit is located in a building that contains three or fewer units and the landlord resides in the building, the spouse does not have the option to become the tenant, unless the spouse and the landlord agree. In this case, the landlord does not use the N14 notice.When can you use the N14 notice?Unless the exception set out above applies to you and your tenant(s), you can use the N14 notice in the following situation: \u0141 the tenant moved out of the unit without giving you a notice of termination, without getting a notice of termination from you, and without agreeing with you to move out, \u0141 the spouse of the tenant is still residing in the rental unit, and \u0141 the tenant owes you rent. If the above conditions are met, you can serve the N14 notice to the spouse, and the spouse can either choose to become the tenant of the rental unit, or choose to move out. You must give the spouse the N14 notice within 45 days from the day you believe the tenant moved out of the rental unit. You do not have to give the spouse the N14 notice if: \u0141 it has been more than 45 days since the day you believe the tenant moved out, or \u0141 the tenant that moved out was not in arrears of rent. In these situations you may apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board to evict an unauthorized occupant (form A2). A hearing will be held before an order is issued.What information must be included in the N14 notice?You must include the following information in the space provided on the N14 notice: \u0141 the landlord\u2122s name, \u0141 the name of the spouse (if you do not know it, you can write \"Unknown\"), \u0141 the address of the rental unit, \u0141 the name of the tenant who moved out, \u0141 the date you believe the tenant moved out, \u0141 how much rent the tenant owes, \u0141 the current rent for the rental unit, \u0141 the date the next rent payment is due, and \u0141 the landlord\u2122s address and phone number. Sign and date the form. If you are the representative of the landlord, include your contact information in the space provided.Continued on next page How does the spouse become the tenant?To become the tenant, there are two things the spouse must do: \u0141 inform you that he or she wants to stay in the unit, and \u0141 agree in writing to pay the rent that is owing for the rental unit. Attached to the N14 notice is the form called Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent Owing. If the spouse wants to become the tenant of the rental unit, the spouse must sign this form and return it to you within 15 days from the day they were given the N14 notice. If the spouse signs the Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent Owing form and returns it to you, the spouse becomes the new tenant of the rental unit. This means that the tenancy agreement for the new tenant (the spouse) is the same one that existed for the tenant that moved out, and the rent for the unit does not change.What if the spouse does not return the signed form within 15 days?You may apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board for an order to evict the spouse as an unauthorized occupant of the rental unit (application form A2) if: \u0141 the spouse does not return the signed Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent Owing form to you within 15 days after the notice was given to them, and \u0141 the spouse does not move out of the rental unit. A hearing will be held before an order is issued.What if you don\u2122t know if the person still living in the unit is the spouse?In some situations, you might not know if the person still living in the rental unit is the spouse of the tenant who moved out. If you do not know who the person is, you do not have to serve the N14 notice. Instead, you can file an application to evict an unauthorized occupant (form A2) with the Board, and the Board will hold a hearing. If you file an application to get an eviction order, and the person living in the rental unit is the spouse of the tenant who moved out, they can still become the tenant by doing the following:If\u2013Then\u2013 there is rent owing for the unit the spouse can become the tenant if they: \u0141 inform you that they want to stay, and \u0141 agree in writing to pay the rent owing for the unit, before the Board issues an order. there is no rent owing for the unit the spouse can become the tenant if they: \u0141 inform you that they want to stay in the rental unit before the Board issues an order. Landlord's Notice to the Spouse of the Tenant who Vacated the Rental Unit N14 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name and address) From: (Landlord's name and address) Address of the Rental Unit: The tenant of the unit above,(insert name), \u0141 owes me $in rent, to the period endingdd/mm/yyyy, \u0141 and I believe that he/she moved out of the rental unit on or aboutdd/mm/yyyy. \u0141 The current rent for the rental unit is $per(day/week/month). \u0141 The next rental payment is due ondd/mm/yyyy.IF YOU WANT TO STAY IN THE RENTAL UNIT If you want to stay in the rental unit and become the tenant, you have 15 days from the date I give you this notice to do the following: \u0141 let me know that you want to stay in the rental unit, and \u0141 agree, in writing, to pay any rent that is owing You can do this by signing the attached notice called: \"Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent Owing\"If you want to stay in the unit \u2013If you give me a signed copy of the Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent Owing, I will consider that you are the tenant of the rental unit identified above. (Make a copy of the signed agreement for yourself.) If you become the tenant, you will be responsible for paying me the amount of rent owing.If you do not pay the rent owing\u2013If you sign the agreement and you do not pay me the amount of rent owing, I can give you an N4 Notice to End Your Tenancy for Non-payment of Rent. I can then apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board for an order evicting you for not paying the rent, and to collect the rent owing. If you dispute the amount I claim is owing, you may attend the hearing and tell the adjudicator.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 If you do not respond to me within 15 days\u2013If you do not give me a signed copy of the agreement within 15 days after I give you this notice, I will assume you do not want to stay in the rental unit. In this case, I can apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board to have you evicted as an unauthorized occupant of the rental unit.If you want to move out of the rental unit\u2013If you do not want to stay in the rental unit, you do not have to sign the Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent Owing. If you do not inform me of what you intend to do within 15 days after I give you this notice, and, if you do not move out of the rental unit, I can apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board to have you evicted as an unauthorized occupant of the rental unit. If you have any questions about this form and the law, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080, or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. You may also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb for further information. Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDate Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2 Notice to Landlord and Agreement to Pay the Rent OwingTo: (Landlord's Name) Re: Address of the Rental Unit Unit /Apt. /Suite: Street Address: Municipality (City, Town, etc): Postal Code:I am the spouse of the tenant who vacated the rental unit identified above. I want to stay in the rental unit and become the tenant, and I agree to pay the amount of rent that is lawfully owing for the rental unit. Name of Spouse Signature DateYou must return this signed notice to the landlord no later than 15 days after the landlord gives it to you. Remember to make a copy of the notice for yourself.", "Request_for_the_Board_to_Issue_a_Summons": "Request for the LTB to Issue a Summons (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberRequester's Information Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member OtherFirst NameLast Name Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-Unit, Building or Complex Covered by this ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeInformation about the HearingHearing Datedd/mm/yyyy//Hearing Time hr min :ampmLocationPart 1: Witness to be Summoned to Attend the HearingFirst NameLast Name Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).v. 31/12/2021Page 1 of 3 Explain how the witness is connected to the case.Give a general description of the evidence the witness will provide at the hearing and explain why this evidence is relevant and necessary to resolve the application.Page 2 of 3 Part 2: Documents Witness Must Bring to the Hearing Name of Document Reason Document is RequiredSignature Requester Representative OtherFirst NameLast Name Day Phone Number ()-LSUC #Important: If you are a lawyer or paralegal, you must also attach a completed Summons. SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)If the LTB approves your request and issues a summons, indicate how the LTB should provide the signed summons to you. The LTB will not serve the summons for you.Pick up at LTB officeMail to requester's address (on the first page)Email to requester at this email address:OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email EfileMSFLPage 3 of 3", "L9": "Form L9 - ChecklistApplication to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes Before you file the attached application with the Landlord and Tenant Board, make sure you can answer YES to each of the following questions. If not, your application to the Board may be dismissed, which means you may have to start over. Is the tenant still in possession of the rental unit?You cannot file this application if the tenant is no longer in possession of the rental unit. Did you name each tenant that is in possession of the rental unit? Did you fill in the complete address of the rental unit?You must provide the full address, including the postal code. Be sure you have correctly identified the rental unit. Did you check your math? Make sure you have correctly calculated the total amounts owing in the two tables in Part 5 (Rent Owing and NSF Cheque Charges). Check the calculation across the rows of each table and then check the total amounts in the final columns. Also check to be sure that the amount in the box on page 1 matches the total amount owing in Part 6. Did you date and sign the application on page 5?If your application is not signed and dated, the Board will not accept it. Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for LandlordsUse this form to apply for an order to collect rent the tenant owes you. Instructions for Form L9 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. If you also want to terminate the tenancy and evict the tenant for non-payment of rent, use Form L1 instead. 1. Complete all seven parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for information about the address of the rental unit covered by this application. \u0141 Part 2 requires you to fill in the total amount you believe the tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 3 asks for general information about: \u0141 you (your name, etc), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 4 requires you to select the reason(s) for your application to the Board and provide information about the tenant\u2122s rent. \u0141 Part 5 asks you to show how you calculated the amount you believe the tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 6 asks you to provide information about the total amount you believe the tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 7 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. Complete the checklist that is attached to the application to make sure you have completed the application form correctly. Do not include the checklist when you file the application. 4. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 5. Pay the application fee of $201 to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 6. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: ADDRESS OF THE RENTAL UNIT COVERED BY THIS APPLICATIONStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal Code PART 2: TOTAL AMOUNT THE TENANT OWES The following information is from your landlord I am applying to the Landlord and Tenant Board for an order to collect the money you owe me. I believe that you owe me a total of $\u0141as ofdd/mm/yyyy//. This amount includes the filing fee for this application. You may also owe me any new rent that comes due after I file this application. To see how I calculated this amount, go to page 5.The following information is from the Landlord and Tenant Board IF YOU AGREE with the amount the landlord claims you owe:If you agree with the amount the landlord claims you owe, you can pay everything you owe or work out a payment plan. However, read the options before you decide. You may want to get legal advice first. Option 1: Pay everything you oweIf you pay all the rent you owe plus the landlord's filing fee before the Board issues an order about this application, be sure to get a receipt. The amount you have to pay includes: \u0141 the amount set out above that the landlord is claiming in this application, plus \u0141 any new rent that has come due after the landlord filed this application. Go to the hearing, where you can tell the Board what you've paid. If the landlord gave you receipts for amounts you paid, bring them to the hearing. OPTION 2: Work out a payment planIf you cannot pay everything you owe right now, you can talk to your landlord to see if they are willing to work out a payment plan. If you and the landlord agree to a payment plan, go to the hearing where you can explain the payment plan to the Board.OFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 6 Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)OPTION 2: Work out a payment plan - continuedThe Board also has a Payment Agreement form that you and your landlord can fill out and file with the Board before the hearing. If you or your landlord files the Payment Agreement form with the Board before the hearing, the Board can issue a consent order without holding a hearing. The consent order will be based on the payment plan set out in the Payment Agreement form. If the Board issues the consent order, you will not have to go to the hearing. However, if the Board has not issued a consent order by the date of the hearing, you should go to the hearing.IF YOU DO NOT AGREE with the amount the landlord claims you owe: Talk to your landlord to see if both of you can agree on a different amount. You may want to get legal advice first. If you and your landlord agree on a different amountIf you and your landlord can agree on the amount you owe, read the options above called Pay everything you owe and Work out a payment plan. You can follow one of these options, but use the different amount you and your landlord have agreed on. You should go to the hearing unless the Board has a issued a consent order based on a Payment Agreement. If you and your landlord do not agree on a different amountIf you and your landlord cannot agree on the amount you owe, you should go to the hearing. At the hearing, you can explain why you disagree with the amount the landlord claims you owe. If the Board decides that you owe money, you can ask for more time to pay it. See \ufb01Go to the hearing\ufb02 below for more information about the hearing.Go to the hearingThe date, time and location of the hearing are shown on the Notice of Hearing that is attached to this application. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in the application. You will have an opportunity to respond to the landlord's claims. For example, you can explain why you disagree with the amount the landlord claimed you owe. You can also ask the Board for more time to pay the money you owe. If you have paid everything you owe before the hearing, or if you and your landlord have worked out a payment plan, you can tell the Board at the hearing. You can also raise other issues such as maintenance problems or harassment. If you plan to raise other issues at the hearing, it is important that you bring evidence to support your case. If the Board accepts your evidence, the Board may order the landlord to pay you money. If you owe arrears of rent, this may reduce the amount you owe. Mediation is availableIf you would like to resolve this application by mediation instead of the formal hearing process, in most cases you can speak to a Board mediator on the day of your hearing.After the hearingThe Board will make a decision and issue an order that will be sent to you by mail. The order will tell you what the Board decided, including what you have to pay. You should read the order to be sure it is correct and that you understand it.For more information: You can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234 or visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. Page 2 of 6 Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)THE LANDLORD'S APPLICATION Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 3: GENERAL INFORMATIONLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable)Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit) Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 3 of 6 Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: REASONS FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each reason on which you based this application.I am applying for an order that will require the tenant to pay me: the rent the tenant owes me, and an amount for charges related to NSF cheques the tenant gave me.The tenant must be in possession of the rental unit when you file this application. Shade the circle completely to answer whether or not the tenant is still in possession of the rental unit on the date you file this application. Yes NoIf you answer no, you cannot file this application Shade the circle completely to show whether the tenant is required to pay rent by the: month week other (specify) PART 5: DETAILS OF THE LANDLORD'S CLAIMSection 1. Rent OwingI have calculated the amount of rent the tenant owes me as follows:Rent Period From: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy)Rent Charged $Rent Paid $Rent Owing $ Total Rent Owing $////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Section 2. NSF Cheque ChargesFill in the table below if you are applying to collect money from the tenant because you had bank or administration charges for NSF cheques the tenant gave you. I have calculated the amount of NSF bank charges and my related administration charges the tenant owes me as follows: Cheque Amount $Date of Cheque dd/mm/yyyyDate NSF Charge Incurred dd/mm/yyyyBank Charge for NSF Cheque $Landlord's Administration Charge $Total Charge $ Total NSF Related Charges Owing $\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach additional sheets if necessary.Page 4 of 6 Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 6: TOTAL AMOUNT OWINGTotal rent owing: $\u0141(from Part 5, Section 1) Total NSF cheque related charges owing: $\u0141(from Part 5, Section 2)Application Fee: $\u0141 Total: $\u0141 PART 7: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 5 of 6 Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 6 of 6 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Request_to_Reschedule_a_Hearing": "Request to Reschedule a Hearing (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberRequesting Party's Information Landlord Tenant Other PartyFirst NameLast Name Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-Unit, Building or Complex Covered by the ApplicationStreet Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeHearing InformationWhat is the date of the hearing you are requesting to reschedule?Hearing Date:dd/mm/yyyy//Have you or any other party to the application appeared before a Member at a hearing with respect to this application? Yes This request must be filed with the Board at least two full business days before the hearing. No This request must be filed with the Board no later than noon of the day before the hearing.Consent Confirmation Have you obtained consent to reschedule the hearing from the other party or parties? Yes NoHow did the other party or parties consent to the rescheduling? Verbally In WritingThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 3 Additional InformationExplain why you believe your hearing should be rescheduled.Attach additional sheets if necessaryScheduling InformationIn the space below, list the dates that each party and their representative is not available for three months after the date of the hearing you are requesting to reschedule.LandlordLandlord's RepresentativeTenantTenant's RepresentativeSignature Landlord Landlord Representative Tenant Tenant Representative OtherFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Page 2 of 3 Important Information1. A request to reschedule a hearing can be filed by any party to the application. The person making this request must: \u0141 ensure that the consent of all parties has been obtained. Parties may give verbal consent, but it is best to obtain consent in writing. \u0141 give the Board a list of unavailable dates for the landlord and the tenant and their representatives for three months after the date of the hearing you are asking to reschedule. If the consent of all parties has not been obtained and a list of unavailable dates is not provided, your request may be denied. 2. It is the responsibility of the parties or their representatives to contact the Board to determine if the rescheduling request has been granted. 3. If the Board denies your request, you should be prepared to come to the hearing. If the applicant does not attend the hearing, the application may be dismissed. If the respondent does not attend the hearing, the Board may proceed in the respondent's absence. 4. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 5. For further information, you may contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or you may visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.For Board Use Only:The request to reschedule is: Granted DeniedReasons:Name of Member:Signature:Date:Page 3 of 3", "L1": "Form L1 - ChecklistApplication to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes Before you file the attached application with the Landlord and Tenant Board, make sure you can answer YES to each of the following questions. If not, your application to the Board may be dismissed, which means you may have to start over. Did you give the tenant an N4 notice?You cannot file this application unless you gave the tenant a Notice to End your Tenancy Early for Non-payment of Rent (Form N4). Are you applying after the termination date on the N4 notice?You cannot file this application until the day after the termination date in the Notice to End a Tenancy Early for Non-payment of Rent (Form N4). Is the tenant still in possession of the rental unit?You cannot file this application if the tenant is no longer in possession of the rental unit. Have you included a copy of the N4 notice and a Certificate of Service for that notice with your application? You must include a copy of these two documents when you file your application; if you do not, your application will not be accepted. Be sure to keep copies of these documents for your records. Did you name each tenant in possession of the rental unit? The tenant or tenants that you name in this application should be the same people you named on the N4 notice that you served. Did you fill in the complete address of the rental unit? You must provide the full address, including the postal code. Be sure you have correctly identified the rental unit. Did you check your math? Make sure you have correctly calculated the total amounts owing in the two tables in Part 5 (Rent Owing and NSF Cheque Charges). Check the calculation across the rows of each table and then check the total amounts in the final columns.Also check to be sure that the amount in the box on page 1 matches the total amount owing in Part 6. Did you date and sign the application on page 5? If your application is not signed and dated, the Board will not accept it. Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for LandlordsUse this form to apply for an order to end a tenancy and evict a tenant after you give the tenant an N4 Notice to End Your Tenancy for Non-payment of Rent. Instructions for Form L1 are available on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. 1. Complete all seven parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for information about the address of the rental unit covered by this application. \u0141 Part 2 requires you to fill in the total amount you believe the tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 3 asks for general information about: \u0141 you (your name, etc), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 4 requires you to: \u0141 select the reason(s) for your application to the Board, \u0141 provide information about the tenant\u2122s rent, the rent deposit and whether or not the tenant is still in possession of the rental unit. \u0141 Part 5 asks you to show how you calculated the amount the tenant may owe you. \u0141 Part 6 asks you to provide information about the total amount you believe the tenant owes you. \u0141 Part 7 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. Complete the checklist that is attached to the application to make sure you have completed the application form correctly. Do not include the checklist when you file the application. 4. File all pages of the application (not including this page) with the Board along with a copy of the N4 Notice to End Your Tenancy for Non-payment of Rent you gave the tenant. Also file a Certificate of Service showing how and when you served the tenant the N4 Notice. The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 5. Pay the application fee of $201 to the Board at the same time as you file the application (or $186 if you e-File). The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you e-File the application, you must pay by credit card or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 6. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/LTB Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 1: ADDRESS OF THE RENTAL UNIT COVERED BY THIS APPLICATIONStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal Code PART 2: TOTAL AMOUNT THE TENANT OWESThe following information is from your landlordI am applying to the Landlord and Tenant Board for an order: \u0141 to evict you because you owe rent, and \u0141 to collect the money you owe me. I believe that you owe me a total of $ \u0141as of dd/mm/yyyy//. This amount includes the filing fee for this application. You may also owe me any new rent that comes due after I file this application. To see how I calculated this amount, go to page 5. The following information is from the Landlord and Tenant Board IF YOU AGREE with the amount the landlord claims you owe: If you agree with the amount the landlord claims you owe, you can pay everything you owe or work out a payment plan. However, read the options before you decide. You may want to get legal advice first. OPTION 1: Pay everything you owe If you pay all the rent you owe plus the landlord's filing fee before the Board issues an order about this application, the landlord will not be able to evict you for not paying the rent. The amount you have to pay includes:\u0141 the amount set out above that the landlord is claiming in this application, plus \u0141 any new rent that has come due after the landlord filed this application. You can pay these amounts to the landlord directly, or to the Board in trust. Be sure to get a receipt for any amounts you pay to the landlord. Go to the hearing, where you can tell the Board what you've paid. If the landlord gave you receipts for amounts you paid, bring them to the hearing. OPTION 2: Work out a payment planIf you cannot pay everything you owe right now, you can talk to your landlord to see if they are willing to work out a payment plan. If you and the landlord agree to a payment plan, go to the hearing where you can explain the payment plan to the Board.OFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 6 Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)OPTION 2: Work out a payment plan - continuedThe Board also has a Payment Agreement form that you and your landlord can fill out and file with the Board before the hearing. If you or your landlord files the Payment Agreement form with the Board before the hearing, the Board can issue a consent order without holding a hearing. The consent order will be based on the payment plan set out in the Payment Agreement form. If the Board issues the consent order, you will not have to go to the hearing. However, if the Board has not issued a consent order by the date of the hearing, go to the hearing.IF YOU DO NOT AGREE with the amount the landlord claims you owe: Talk to your landlord to see if both of you can agree on a different amount. You may want to get legal advice first. If you and your landlord agree on a different amountIf you and your landlord can agree on the amount you owe, read the options above called Pay everything you owe and Work out a payment plan. You can follow one of these options, but use the different amount you and your landlord have agreed on. Go to the hearing unless the Board has issued a consent order based on a Payment Agreement.If you and your landlord do not agree on a different amountIf you and your landlord cannot agree on the amount you owe, go to the hearing, and, at the hearing, explain why you disagree with the amount the landlord claims you owe. If the Board decides that you owe money, you can ask for more time to pay it.Go to the hearingAs described in this form, there are different options for dealing with the claims your landlord made in this application depending on whether or not you agree with the amount the landlord claims you owe. However, whatever you choose to do, it is important to participate in the hearing. The date, time and hearing method are shown on the Notice of Hearing that is attached to this application. (Exception: you do not have to attend the hearing if, before the hearing date, the Board issues a consent order based on a Payment Agreement form - however, if you and your landlord filled out the Payment Agreement form and you haven't received the consent order by the hearing date, go to the hearing.) At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in the application and the Notice to End your Tenancy. You will have an opportunity to respond to the landlord's application. For example, you can explain why you disagree with the amount the landlord claimed you owe, or explain why you think you should not be evicted. You can also ask the Board for more time to pay the money you owe. If you have paid everything you owe before the hearing, or if you and your landlord have worked out a payment plan, you can tell the Board at the hearing. At the hearing, you can also raise other issues such as maintenance problems or harassment if you give the landlord and the Board advance notice. If you plan to raise other issues, you must give the landlord and the Board a written description of each issue at least seven days before the hearing. Include details such as a description of the issue, when it began, and when you told your landlord. You can use a Board form for this purpose. You must also give a copy of all your evidence to support your case to the landlord and the Board at least seven days before the hearing. If the Board accepts your evidence, the Board may order the landlord to pay you money. If you owe arrears of rent, this may reduce the amount you owe.After the hearingThe Board will make a decision and issue an order that will be sent to you by mail. The order will tell you what the Board decided, including what you have to pay. You should read the order to be sure it is correct and that you understand it.For more information: You can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234 or visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. Page 2 of 6 Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)THE LANDLORD'S APPLICATION Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 3: GENERAL INFORMATIONLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable)Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit) Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 3 of 6 Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: REASONS FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each reason on which you based this application.I am applying for an order to end the tenancy and evict the tenant and to collect: the rent the tenant owes me up to the date they move out of the rental unit, and an amount for charges related to NSF cheques the tenant gave me.The tenant must be in possession of the rental unit when you file this application. Shade the circle completely to answer whether or not the tenant is still in possession of the rental unit on the date you file this application. Yes NoIf you answer no, you cannot file this applicationShade the circle completely to show whether the tenant is required to pay rent by the: month week other (specify)The amount of rent currently on deposit: $\u0141The date the rent deposit was collected:dd/mm/yyyy//The last rental period for which the tenant was paid interest on the rent deposit:dd/mm/yyyy//todd/mm/yyyy// PART 5: DETAILS OF THE LANDLORD'S CLAIMSection 1. Rent OwingI have calculated the amount of rent the tenant owes me as follows:Rent Period From: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy)Rent Charged $Rent Paid $Rent Owing $ Total Rent Owing $////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Section 2. NSF Cheque ChargesFill in the table below if you are applying to collect money from the tenant because you had bank or administration charges for NSF cheques the tenant gave you. I have calculated the amount of NSF bank charges and my related administration charges the tenant owes me as follows: Cheque Amount $Date of Cheque dd/mm/yyyyDate NSF Charge Incurred dd/mm/yyyyBank Charge for NSF Cheque $Landlord's Administration Charge $Total Charge $ Total NSF Related Charges Owing $\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach additional sheets if necessary.Page 4 of 6 Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 6: TOTAL AMOUNT OWINGTotal rent owing: $\u0141(from Part 5, Section 1) Total NSF cheque related charges owing: $\u0141(from Part 5, Section 2)Application Fee: $\u0141 Total: $\u0141 PART 7: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 5 of 6 Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes FORM L1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 6 of 6 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Issues_a_Tenant_Intends_to_Raise_at_a_Rent_Arrears_Hearing": "Issues a Tenant Intends to Raise at a Rent Arrears Hearing (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)v. 25/06/2021If a landlord files a rent arrears application (also known as an L1 application or L9 application), a tenant is permitted to raise any issue that could have been the subject of a Tenant's Application before the Board, such as maintenance issues or Tenant's Rights. If you are a tenant and intend to raise an issue during your rent arrears hearing, please provide ALL of the information requested in this form. You may use additional pages or create your own form as long as you provide the same information. A tenant who fails to provide the landlord and the Board with a written description of each issue will not be permitted to raise them at the hearing unless the Board Member is satisfied that the tenant could not comply with the requirements. If you want to obtain legal advice, this MUST be done prior to the hearing. This form must be given to the landlord, or the landlord's representative, and the Board as soon as possible but no later than 7 days before the hearing of the landlord's application. You MUST also give a copy of all documents, pictures and other evidence that you intend to rely upon at the hearing no later than 7 days in advance of the hearing unless ordered otherwise. Information about how to give your documents to the Board is contained in the Notice of Hearing.Your Name:File NumberDescribe the issueWhen did the issue start? (dd/mm/yyyy)When did you tell the landlord? (dd/mm/yyyy)Is the issue resolved? (Yes or No)What would you like the Board to order for this issue?e.g.(1) the roof leaks when it rains (see photos)22/09/201923/09/2019NoRoof fixed; 15% of my rentAttach more sheets, if necessary.", "A2": "Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants and Landlords Use this form to apply to the Board because of issues related to assigning or subletting the rental unit. Instructions for Form A2 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Tenants who are applying must complete Parts 1, 2 and 4 of this application. Landlords who are applying must complete Parts 1, 3 and 4 of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 your contact information and that of the other parties to the application, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks tenants to select and explain the reasons for their application. \u0141 Part 3 asks landlords to select and explain the reasons for their application. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application (not including this page) with the Board. The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your A2 application fee is $53 if you are a tenant and $201 if you are a landlord. If you file\u20acthe application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance).\u20acIf you mail\u20acthe application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONApplicant Information Landlord TenantFirst Name (If there is more than 1 applicant, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by this ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 7 Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Other Parties to the Application Landlord Tenant Subtenant Current OccupantFirst NameLast NameCompany Name (if applicable)Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressIf there is more than one other party, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with the application. Indicate whether they are a landlord, tenant, subtenant or current occupant. Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord or tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: REASONS A TENANT CAN APPLYIf you are the tenant, shade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying. Reason 1: The landlord arbitrarily or unreasonably refused to allow me to assign or sublet the rental unit to another person.(a) Shade the circle completely to show whether you asked for permission to: Assign SubletPlease explain: Why do you believe the landlord arbitrarily or unreasonably refused to allow you to assign or sublet the rental unit? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 2 of 7 Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)(b) Shade the box completely next to the order you want the Board to make. If the Board decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the ones you selected. I want the Board to: Allow me to assign or sublet my unit to the following person: Indicate the name of the person(s) that you want to assign or sublet your unit to: End my tenancyIndicate the date you want your tenancy to end: dd/mm/yyyy// Order the landlord to pay me a rent abatement. Indicate the amount you are requesting: $\u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the rent abatement? Attach additional sheets if necessary. Reason 2: The subtenant did not move out on the date we agreed to. (a) Indicate the date the subtenant was supposed to move out:dd/mm/yyyy//(b) Shade the box completely next to the order(s) you want the board to make. If the Board decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the one(s) you selected. I want the Board to: Issue an order ending the tenancy and evicting the subtenant. Order the subtenant to pay me compensation for each day they remain in the unit after the date they were supposed to move out.The total rent the subtenant pays is: $\u0141Shade the circle completely next to show whether the subtenant is required to pay rent by the: month week other (specify)Page 3 of 7 Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: REASONS A LANDLORD CAN APPLYIf you are the landlord, shade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying. Reason 1: The tenant transferred the tenancy to another person without my consent. This person is an unauthorized occupant.Shade the box(es) completely next to the order(s) you want the board to make. If the Board decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the ones you selected. I want the Board to: Issue an order ending the original tenancy and evicting the unauthorized occupant. Indicate the date you were first aware that were was an unauthorized occupant in the unit:dd/mm/yyyy// Order the unauthorized occupant to pay me compensation for each day they remain in the rental unit.How much rent was the tenant paying before they transferred occupancy of the rental unit: $\u0141Shade the circle completely next to show whether the tenant is required to pay rent by the: month week other (specify)Compensation is calculated from the date the landlord discovered the unauthorized occupant. If you believe a different start date should be used, indicate the start date and explain why you believe the occupant owes you money from that date. Attach additional sheets if necessary. Page 4 of 7 Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)NSF Cheque ChargesFill in the table below if you are applying to collect money from the unauthorized occupant because you had bank or administration charges for NSF cheques they gave you. I have calculated the amount of NSF bank charges and related administration charges as follows:Cheque Amount $Date of Cheque dd/mm/yyyyDate NSF Charge Incurred dd/mm/yyyyBank Charge for NSF Cheque $Landlord's Administration Charge $Total Charge $ Total NSF Related Charges Owing $\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach additional sheets if necessary. Reason 2: I want the Board to evict the subtenant because the subtenancy has ended and the subtenant has not moved out.Indicate the date the subtenant was supposed to move out:dd/mm/yyyy// Reason 3: I want the Board to determine that my reasons for refusing to consent to the tenant's request to assign their mobile home or land lease site were reasonable.You must apply no later than 15 days after the day the tenant asked for your for consent to sublet or assign the rental unit. If you are filing the application later than 15 days after the tenant asked for your consent, you must also file a \ufb01Request to Extend or Shorten Time\ufb02.Explain your reasons for refusing to give consent and why you believe they were reasonable under the circumstances: Attach additional sheets if necessary. Page 5 of 7 Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: SIGNATURELandlord/Tenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Tenant RepresentativeInformation About the RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 6 of 7 Application about a Sublet or an Assignment FORM A2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office. OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 7 of 7 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Information_from_your_Landlord_about_Utility_Cost_One_or_More": "Information from your Landlord about Utility Costs (One or More Utilities are no longer Provided in the Residential Complex) (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. To: (Tenant\u2122s name) From: (Landlord\u2122s name) Address of the Rental Unit: Landlords must give this form to a tenant if: \u0141 The Landlord and Tenant Board issued an order under subsection 126(10) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the Act) increasing the rent above the guideline (AGI order); and \u0141 The increase was in whole or in part due to an extraordinary increase in the cost of utilities; and \u0141 The landlord increased the tenant\u2122s rent pursuant to the order; and \u0141 The landlord has ceased to provide one or more utilities to one or more rental units in the residential complex that was provided at the time of the AGI order. Important: Landlords, do not use this form if you provide the same utilities to all of the rental units in the residential complex as were provided at the time of the AGI order. Instead, use the form Information from your Landlord about Utility Costs.Information about your Rent The following information is from your landlord:Tenant: Your rent shall be reduced by $\u0141per(month, week, etc.).This rent reduction will begin as of, which is oneyear after the date your rent was last increased.OR No rent reduction is required.Note: See the calculations on the following pages for the details about how I determined whether or not a rent reduction was required.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 7 Calculations To Determine whether a Rent Reduction is RequiredThese calculations are completed by the landlord to show how they determined the information on page 1.Landlord: Read the Instructions carefully before completing the calculations. You must complete Part 1, Part 2 and Part 6 of the calculation form, and either Part 3 or Part 4. (Refer to Part 1 of the form to determine whether Part 3 or Part 4 applies.) If a rent reduction is required, then also complete Part 5.Part 1 - Has there been a change in the utilities provided by the landlord to the tenant?Indicate whether or not the utilities provided to the tenant are the same or different than the utilities provided at the time of the AGI order. The landlord provides the same utilities to the rental unit now as were provided at the time of the AGI order. [Part 3 of the form must be completed; do not complete Part 4.] The landlord no longer provides one or more utilities to the rental unit that were provided at the time of the AGI order. [Part 4 of the form must be completed; do not complete Part 3.]Part 2 \u0152 Adjusting the Base Year Utility Costs and Allowances:(a) Total Adjusted Base Year Utility Cost* (*Refer to AGI order for this amount.) $\u0141(b) Allowances for Utilities* (*Refer to AGI order for this amount.) $\u0141(c) Percentage of Utility Costs Attributable to each Utility:* (*Refer to AGI order for this amount.)Heat %Electricity %Water %(d) Base Year Utility Costs Attributable to Each Utility [row (a) x row (c)](i) Utility (ii) Amount from row (a) (iii) Percentage Amounts from row (c) (iv) Costs Attributable to Each Utility [(ii) x (iii)] Heat Electricity WaterPage 2 of 7 (e) For each utility you must adjust the amount determined in Part 2(d), column (iv) as follows:(i) Utility (ii) Costs Attributable to Each Utility (Part 2(d), column (iv) above) (iii) # of Units in Complex for which Landlord still provides utility (iv) # of Units in Complex for which Landlord provided utility at time of AGI order(v) Adjusted Utility Costs [(ii) x (iii)\u00f7(iv)] Heat Electricity Water(f) Total Adjusted Base Year Utility Costs in Part 2(e), Column (v) $\u0141(g) Allowances for Utilities Attributable to Each Utility [row (b) x row (c)](i) Utility (ii) Amount from row (b) (iii) Percentage Amounts from row (c) (iv) Allowance Attributable to Each Utility [(ii) x (iii)] Heat Electricity Water(h) For each utility, adjust the allowance amount determined in Part 2(g), column (iv) as follows:(i) Utility (ii) Allowance Attributable to Each Utility (Part 2(g), column (iv) above)(iii) # of Units in Complex for which Landlord still provides utility (iv) # of Units in Complex for which Landlord provided utility at time of AGI order(v) Adjusted Utility Allowance [(ii) x (iii)\u00f7 (iv)] Heat Electricity Water(i) Total Adjusted Allowance Amounts in Part 2(h), Column (v) $\u0141Page 3 of 7 Part 3 \u0152 Determining the Rent Reduction where the same utilities are provided to the tenant of the rental unit:(a) Total Adjusted Utility Costs [Amount in Part 2, row (f)] $\u0141(b) If previous rent reductions due to utilities were determined, set out previous amounts * (*Refer to Instructions to determine this amount.) $\u0141(c) Net Adjusted Base Year Utility Costs for utilities still provided to the rental unit by the Landlord [row (a) \u0152 row (b)] $\u0141(d) Current Utility Costs* (*Refer to Instructions to determine this amount.) $\u0141(e) Change in Utility Costs [row (c) \u0152 row (d)] $\u0141 **** If this amount is zero or less, no rent reduction is required. Complete the \ufb01Information about your Rent\ufb02 box on page 1. Then go to Part 6 of the form. ** If this amount is greater than zero, continue with this part of the form.(f) Adjusted Allowance for Utilities [Amount in Part 2, row (i)] $\u0141(g) Percentage Increase for Utilities* (*Refer to AGI order for this amount.) $\u0141(h) Percentage Amount of Rent Reduction [row (e) \u00f7 row (f) x row (g)] $\u0141Go to Part 5 of the form to explain the rent reduction.Page 4 of 7 Part 4 \u0152 Determining the Rent Reduction where the Landlord has stopped providing one or more utilities to the tenant of the rental unit:(a) Total Adjusted Base Year Utility Costs for Utilities still provided to the rental unit by the Landlord (*Refer to Instructions to determine this amount.) $\u0141(b) If previous rent reductions due to utilities were determined, set out previous amounts * (*Refer to Instructions to determine this amount.) $\u0141(c) Net Adjusted Base Year Utility Costs for utilities still provided to the rental unit by the Landlord [row (a) \u0152 row (b)] $\u0141(d) (i) Current Utility Costs* (*Refer to Instructions.) $\u0141 (ii) Costs of Utilities no longer provided to rental unit by Landlord $\u0141(e) Current Utility Costs for Utilities still provided by Landlord [row (d)(i) \u0152 row (d)(ii)] $\u0141(f) Change in Utility Costs for Utilities still provided by Landlord [row (c) \u0152 row (e)] $\u0141 ** ** If this amount is zero or less, no rent reduction is required. Complete the \ufb01Information about your Rent\ufb02 box on page 1. Then go to Part 6 of the form. ** If this amount is greater than zero, continue with this part of the form.(g) Sum of Allowances for Utilities still provided to the rental unit by the Landlord [from Part 2(g), column (iv)] $\u0141(h) Percentage Increase for Utilities* (*Refer to AGI order for this amount.)(i) Percentage Increase for Utilities Attributable to Each Utility [row (h) multiplied by percentage in Part 2(c)](i) Utility (ii) Amount from row (h) (iii) Percentage Amounts from Part 2(c)(iv) Increase Attributable to Each Utility [(ii) x (iii)] Heat Electricity Water(j) Total Percentage Increase Attributable to Utilities still provided to rental unit by Landlord.(k) Percentage Amount of Rent Reduction. [row (f) \u00f7 row (g) x row (j)]Go to Part 5 of the form to explain the rent reduction.Page 5 of 7 Part 5 \u0152 Explanation of the Rent Reduction[Check the box that applies.] 1. The amount of the rent reduction in Part 3, row (h) or Part 4, row (k) is less than 0.50%. Therefore, no rent reduction is required. 2. The amount of the rent reduction in Part 3, row (h) or Part 4, row (k) is 0.50% or more; the tenant\u2122s rent will be reduced by this percentage amount. 3. The amount of rent reduction in Part 3, row (h) or Part 4, row (k) is 0.50% or more, but there has been a previous rent reduction based on a utility decrease since the AGI order was issued. Therefore, the tenant\u2122s rent will only be reduced up to an amount that does not exceed the actual increase taken for utilities pursuant to the AGI order.Important: Complete the information in the box at the bottom of page 1 of this form. Also make sure you sign and date the form in Part 6.Part 6 \u0152 Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 6 of 7 Important Information The following information is provided by the Landlord and Tenant Board1. The landlord must give this form to any tenant whose rent was increased pursuant to an AGI order (and all or part of the increase was attributable to utilities) and the tenant continues to reside in the same rental unit. 2. A tenant who receives this form can request that the landlord provide them with a compact disc containing all utility bills used to justify the current utility costs in portable document format (PDF). 3. The landlord must comply with a request for the utility bill information if it is made within 2 years from the date this notice was given to the tenant. The landlord cannot charge more than five dollars for providing a copy of the compact disc. Exception: The landlord does not have to provide the compact disc if the residential complex has six or fewer units, and is located in a rural or remote area, and the landlord cannot reasonably provide the compact disc. In this case, the landlord must provide a photocopy of the utility bills for a charge of not more than five dollars. 4. Instead of providing the compact disc, the landlord and the tenant can agree that the landlord will provide either of the following: \u0141 a photocopy of the utility bills used to justify the current utility costs at a reasonable charge based on the landlord\u2122s out-of-pocket costs for making the copies, or \u0141 a copy of the utility bills in PDF format, by e-mail, at no charge.Page 7 of 7", "Request_to_Extend_or_Shorten_Time": "Request to Extend or Shorten Time (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberRequesting Party's Information Landlord Tenant Other PartyFirst NameLast Name Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeEmail Address Day Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-Unit, Building or Complex Covered by the ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeI am requesting that the LTB shorten: the time for serving a Notice of Hearing and schedule an early hearing for my application. the deadline to file an Application for a Rent Increase above the Guideline.I am requesting that the LTB extend the deadline to: file a Request to Review an Order. file a Request to Amend an Order. file a Request to Re-open an Application resolved by mediation. file a Motion to Set Aside an Ex Parte Order. other:The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 10/05/2021Page 1 of 2 More information is available in the Instructions. Explain why your request should be granted. Include any documents that you think may support your request. In deciding your request, the LTB Member may consider: \u0141 Any prejudice (harm) you or another the party may experience if the request is granted or not granted \u0141 Whether there is any way the prejudice may be remedied (addressed) \u0141 Whether this request is made in good faith \u0141 If the request is for an extension of time, the length of the delay in filing the document and the reason for it \u0141 Any other factors the LTB Member considers relevant in the circumstances.Note: If the LTB refuses your request to extend or shorten time, you may not make a further request regarding the same time requirement unless there has been a significant change in circumstances.Attach additional sheets if necessaryPage 2 of 2Signature Landlord Landlord Representative Tenant Tenant Representative OtherFirst NameLast NameLSO #Email AddressPhone Number SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)For LTB Use Only:The request to extend/shorten time is: Granted DeniedReasons:Name of Member:Signature:Date:", "Information_to_Prospective_Tenant_About_Suite_Meters_or_Meters": "Information to Prospective Tenant About Suite Meters or Meters (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Prospective Tenant\u2122s name) From: (Landlord\u2122s name) Address of the Rental Unit: The following information must be given to the prospective tenant if the landlord has installed a meter or suite meter in the rental unit and the landlord wants the prospective tenant to pay for their own electricity costs. Amount of Electricity Used in the Rental Unit: The landlord must provide the most recent information available to them about the electricity usage in the rental unit over the last 12 months. If the meter or suite meter was installed fewer than 12 months ago, then the landlord must provide the most recent information available about the electricity usage from the date the meter or suite meter was installed up to the date the tenancy is entered into. Period: From dd/mm/yyyy//todd/mm/yyyy// Kilowatt hours of electricity used: (kWh) Was the rental unit vacant during this period? The rental unit was not vacant during the period shown above. or The rental unit was vacant during part of the period shown above. It was vacant fromdd/mm/yyyy//todd/mm/yyyy//. Refrigerator in the Rental Unit: The landlord must provide the best information available to them about the refrigerator in the rental unit. The landlord does not provide a refrigerator for the rental unit. or The landlord provides a refrigerator for the rental unit. The date the refrigerator was manufactured is.Other available information about the energy efficiency of the refrigerator: v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Important Information: 1. This information must be provided to the prospective tenant before the landlord enters into a tenancy agreement with the prospective tenant. 2. For more information about this notice or about your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. You can also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2", "N10": "Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline N10 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Tenant's name and address: Landlord's name and address: Address of the Rental Unit: Your New RentThe landlord and tenant agree that ondd/mm/yyyy//, the total rent for the unit will increase to $\u0141per(month, week, etc.).The law allows a landlord and tenant to agree to a rent increase that is more than the rent increase guideline if the landlord: \u0141 has done (or will do) capital work; or \u0141 has provided (or will provide) a new or additional service.The rent increase cannot be more than the rent increase guideline plus 3%.Details of the Work or New or Additional Service Provide details of the work or new or additional service. Also include the date the work was (or will be) completed or the service provided.Attach additional sheets if necessaryv. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Important Information About this Agreement and the Law1. If the tenant wants to cancel this agreement, the tenant can do so by giving written notice to the landlord within five calendar days after the agreement is signed. The agreement cannot come into effect until at least six calendar days after it is signed. 2. A landlord can only agree to increase the rent if at least 12 months have passed since the last rent increase or since a new tenant moved into the unit. 3. If the landlord and tenant sign this form, it takes the place of a Notice of Rent Increase. Therefore, the landlord does not have to give a notice to increase the rent. 4. If the landlord does not do the work or provide the service that has been agreed to, the tenant may apply to the Landlord and Tenant Board and ask that all or part of the rent increase above the rent increase guideline be considered invalid. The tenant must apply no later than two years after the date the rent was increased pursuant to the agreement. 5. If you have any questions about this agreement and the law, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or, you may also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb for further information.Landlord and Tenant SignaturesBy signing this form, the landlord agrees to do the work or provide the service described above and the tenant agrees to pay the new rent set out at the top of this form as of the date agreed to.Tenant's First NameTenant's Last NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Landlord's First Name Landlord's Last NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 2 of 2", "T7": "Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants Use this form to apply to have the Board determine whether your landlord: \u0141 did not follow the rules under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the RTA) before they terminated their obligation to provide electricity to the rental unit and required you to start paying your own electricity costs, or \u0141 did not follow all the required rules under the RTA before requiring you to pay a portion of the utility costs for your rental unit. Instructions for Form T7 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all four parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, your landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 your tenancy and any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application. \u0141 Part 3 asks you to select the remedies you want the Board to include in the order. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you will need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T7 application fee is $53 for the first unit and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressQuestions about Your Tenancy When did you move into the rental unit you are applying about? dd/mm/yyyy//Do you still live in the rental unit? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Yes NoWhen did you move out?dd/mm/yyyy//Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASONS FOR FILING THIS APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying to the Board. You can apply for reasons 1 - 5 if the responsibility to pay for electricity was transferred to you after you moved into the rental unit. Reason 1: When the suite meter was installed in my rental unit (shade the boxes completely next to the reasons that apply): The landlord did not provide me with 24 hour written notice specifying the date, time and anticipated duration of the interruption of the supply of electricity. The supply of electricity was interrupted for longer than necessary. The suite meter was not installed by an authorized suite meter provider.Please explain: Attach more sheets if necessary. Reason 2: The landlord did not give me the required information before getting my written consent to terminate the landlord's obligation to supply electricity to my rental unit.Please explain: List what information was not provided to you by the landlord. Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 3 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 3: The landlord terminated their obligation to pay for electricity without (shade the boxes completely next to the reasons that apply): Getting my written consent in the form approved by the Landlord and Tenant Board. Providing me with a written 30 day notice specifying the date that the landlord was terminating their obligation to supply electricity to my rental unit. Reducing the rent by the correct amount.Please explain:Attach more sheets if necessary. Reason 4: My rental unit is electrically heated and the landlord did not meet all the conditions that are required before terminating the landlord's obligation to pay for electricity. Reason 5: The refrigerator the landlord provides does not meet the electricity conservation and efficiency standards that are required for units where the tenant pays for the electricity charges.You can apply for reasons 6 and 7 if the meter or suite meter was installed in the rental unit before you moved in and your initial tenancy agreement with the landlord required you to pay for electricity. Reason 6: Before entering into the tenancy agreement, the landlord did not give me the required information about (shade the boxes completely next to the reasons that apply): The previous electricity consumption for the rental unit. The energy efficiency of the refrigerator and the date it was manufactured.Page 4 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 7: The refrigerator the landlord provides does not meet the electricity conservation and efficiency standards that are required for units where the tenant pays for the electricity charges.You can apply for reasons 8 - 10 if you live in a building that contains not more than six rental units and the landlord charges you a portion of the utility costs. Reason 8: Before entering into the tenancy agreement, the landlord did not give me the following information about (shade the boxes completely next to the reasons that apply): The total cost of the utility for the building. The percentage of the total cost of the utility that applies to my rental unit. Reason 9: The refrigerators the landlord provides for the rental units in the building do not all meet the electricity conservation and efficiency standards that are required where tenants pay a portion of the electricity charges. Reason 10: The landlord transferred the obligation to pay a portion of the utility costs to me without (shade the boxes completely next to the reasons that apply): Getting my written consent to charge me a portion of the utility. Providing me with a written 30 day notice specifying the date of the rent reduction and the amount of the rent reduction. Reducing the rent by the correct amount.Please explain: Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 5 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: REMEDIESThe remedies listed below are orders the Board can make to address your reasons for filing the application. Shade the boxes completely next to the remedies you want the Board to order. If the Board decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the one(s) you selected. Remedy 1: The landlord must pay me a rent abatement of $\u0141My current rent is $\u0141I am required to pay rent by the month week other (specify)Please explain: How did you calculate the rent abatement? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 2: I want the Board to authorize the repair, replacement or other work I did and to order the landlord to pay me for my costs.The total costs are $\u0141Please explain: What work did you do? How did you calculate the costs? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 6 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 3: I want the Board to authorize me to do the repairs, replacement or other work that is necessary and to order the landlord to pay me for my costs.Please explain: What work do you plan to do? How much will it cost? How did you calculate how much it will cost? Be specific. Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 4: I want the Board to order the landlord to do the repairs, replacement or other work that is necessary.Please explain: What work must the landlord do? Be specific. Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 5: I want the Board to order the landlord to reduce my rent by $\u0141per month week other (specify)as of dd/mm/yyyy//and to order the landlord to pay me the appropriate rebate as a result. Please explain: How did you calculate the rent reduction? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 7 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 6: I want the Board to order other remedies. I have described those remedies below.Please explain: What else do you want the Board to order? Attach more sheets if necessary.If you applied for reasons 2, 3, 4 or 10, you can ask the Board to include remedies 7 and 8 in the order. Remedy 7: I want the Board to end my tenancy ondd/mm/yyyy// Remedy 8: I want the Board to order the landlord to assume the obligation to pay for the electricity charges (or the utility costs) for my rental unit and to set the new rent that can be charged. PART 4: SIGNATURETenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal Representative Information About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 8 of 9 Tenant Application about Suite Meters FORM T7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 9 of 9 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "L1_L9_\u2013_Information_Update": "L1/L9 \u0152 Information Update (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)PLEASE READ AS THE LTB'S PROCEDURE HAS BEEN UPDATED Video Conference Hearings or Telephone Hearings You must complete this form and email (or mail or courier) to the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) at least five days before your hearing if you have made an L1 or an L9 application to the LTB. This form must also be given to the tenant(s) at least five days before your hearing. The information on this form lets the LTB know if anything has changed since you filed your application. The LTB requires this form to make a decision about your application. In-Person Hearings (for special accommodation) You must provide information that is up to date as of the hearing day, so you must complete this form before your hearing. You must bring three paper copies of this form to the hearing \u0152 one for the LTB, one for your tenant, and one for your records. The information on this form lets the LTB know if anything has changed since you filed your application. The LTB requires this form to make a decision about your application. Important: If you attend the hearing and you have not submitted the completed L1/L9 Information Update form, the adjudicator may refuse to hold the hearing. Your completed L1/L9 Information Update sheet must be submitted to the LTB and the tenant at least five days before the hearing to ensure your hearing is held. An electronic version of this form is on the LTB website under the \"Other Forms\" section: tribunalsontario.ca/ltb/forms/v. 14/10/2020 L1/L9 Application \u0152 Information Update (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name:File No:Tenant's Name:Rental Unit Address: Complete all 10 sections of this form. If you check Yes, because something has changed since the date the application was filed, fill in the details in the space provided on the form. You can attach additional sheets, if necessary.SINCE THE APPLICATION WAS FILED: FILL IN DETAILS ONLY IF INFORMATION HAS CHANGED1. Has the Tenant moved out of the unit? No YesWhen? (dd/mm/yyyy):2. Has the monthly rent charged to the Tenant changed from what was shown on the application? No YesThe new rent is: $Date rent changed (dd/mm/yyyy):3. Has the rent deposit changed? OR Have you paid interest on the rent deposit? No YesAmount held now: $Interest paid for the period:dd/mm/yyyytodd/mm/yyyy4. After you filed the application, did you receive any additional payments? No YesAmount of payment: $Date payment made (dd/mm/yyyy): $ $TOTAL ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS THE TENANT MADE: $5. After you filed the application, has any new rent become due? No YesAdditional rent owing: $Date rent was due (dd/mm/yyyy): $ $6. TOTAL AMOUNT YOU BELIEVE THE TENANT OWES FOR ARREARS ONLY as of the end of this month. (Do NOT subtract the last month\u2122s rent deposit or interest you owe on it, do NOT include the application filing fee, and do NOT include any NSF fees.) $**Subtotal of arrears only owed**7. Are there new NSF/administration charges that were not listed on the application? No YesNSF cheque amount: $Cheque date: (dd/mm/yyyy)NSF charge date: (dd/mm/yyyy)Bank NSF charge amount: $Administration charge: (Max. $20 / cheque) $Total charge $ $ $ $ $Total of NSF charges on application $Total of all NSF charges including NSFs from application $8. Do you want the Board to order the Tenant to pay you the application fee? No YesShade the appropriate circle:$201 (regular fee)$186 (e-File fee)$190 (previous regular fee)$175 (previous e-File fee)9. GRAND TOTAL YOU BELIEVE THE TENANT OWES INCLUDING ALL FEES. (This INCLUDES arrears, NSF fees and the application filing fee. The last month's rent deposit should NOT be deducted and no other fees/costs should be included.) $***Grand Total Requested***10. Section 83 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, requires the Board to consider whether to refuse or delay the Tenant\u2122s eviction, even if the Tenant owes rent. (See the explanation of section 83 on the other side of this sheet.)Are there any circumstances about this tenancy you think the Board should be aware of before making a decision about evicting the Tenant? No YesIf you check Yes, you must provide details on the other side of this form.You must complete the Declaration and sign the other side of this form.v. 14/10/2020Page 1 of 2 (Attach additional sheets, if necessary.)If you checked \"Yes\" for question 10, give the details:DECLARATION AS TO TRUTH OF INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENTTo the best of my knowledge and belief, the information contained in this form is true as of the date of the hearing of this application. I make this Declaration conscientiously knowing that it is of the same force and effect as if made under oath or affirmation.Name:Date: Signature: Landlord RepresentativeNote: It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, to file false or misleading information in any material provided to the Board.Section 83 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (RTA)The Board may decide to delay or refuse to order the tenant's eviction Section 83 of the RTA requires that the Landlord and Tenant Board have regard to all circumstances where an application to evict a tenant is made to the Board. This means the Board must consider the circumstances of both the tenant and the landlord when making a decision on an application to evict a tenant. After reviewing all circumstances at a hearing for an eviction application, the Board may decide to delay a tenant\u2122s eviction, or, if it is not unfair to do so, the Board may decide to refuse to order the tenant\u2122s eviction and allow the tenant to stay in the rental unit. If the tenant is present at their Board eviction hearing, they may tell the Board about circumstances that they think provides a reasonable argument why their eviction should be delayed or refused. For example: \u0141 the tenant lost their job and owes rent, but got a new job and will be able to repay the landlord very soon; \u0141 someone has agreed to loan the tenant the money to pay the arrears; or, \u0141 the tenant has a disability or chronic illness that will make finding a new rental unit more difficult. If a tenant does not appear at their eviction hearing, the Board must still have regard to both the landlord\u2122s and tenant\u2122s circumstances, and will ask the landlord to provide any information about this they may have.If a landlord has provided information about circumstances relevant to section 83, but believes that the Board should order eviction because to do otherwise would be unfair, the landlord can explain this in the box too. The Board must refuse to order the tenant's eviction Section 83 of the RTA states that the Board must refuse to evict a tenant where the Board is satisfied that the landlord: \u0141 currently is seriously in breach of their responsibilities under the RTA or under the tenancy agreement; \u0141 made the application because the tenant complained to a government authority about health, safety, housing or maintenance issues related to their rental unit or residential complex; \u0141 made the application because the tenant has attempted to secure or enforce their legal rights; \u0141 made the application because the tenant is a member of a tenant's association or is trying to organize one; or, \u0141 made the application because there are children in the rental unit, even though the number of children occupying the rental unit is not considered by law to be overcrowding.Page 2 of 2", "L3": "Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant Gave Notice or Agreed to End the Tenancy FORM L3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Landlords Use this form to apply for an order to end a tenancy and evict a tenant if the tenant gave you a notice to end their tenancy or you and the tenant agreed to terminate the tenancy. Instructions for Form L3 are available on the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by the application, \u0141 you (your name, etc.), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select the reason for your application. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. File all pages of the application with the LTB (not including this page) no later than 30 days after the termination date set out in the notice the tenant gave you or the agreement to terminate the tenancy. 3. Pay the application fee of $201 to the LTB at the same time as you file the application. The LTB will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 4. You must also file the following documents with your application: \u0141 a copy of the notice or agreement to terminate the tenancy, \u0141 a signed declaration or a sworn affidavit confirming the contents of the notice or agreement to terminate the tenancy. 5. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant Gave Notice or Agreed to End the Tenancy FORM L3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 3 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant Gave Notice or Agreed to End the Tenancy FORM L3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Tenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: REASON FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the appropriate box completely to indicate whether you are applying to end the tenancy and evict the tenant based on a Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy or an Agreement to End the Tenancy. Also indicate the date the tenancy is supposed to end. The tenant gave me a notice to end the tenancy. The tenant agreed to end the tenancy.What is the date the tenancy is supposed to end? dd/mm/yyyy//Page 2 of 3 Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant Gave Notice or Agreed to End the Tenancy FORM L3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the box completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressCollecting Personal InformationThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. After the landlord files the application, the LTB will normally issue an order terminating the tenancy without holding a hearing. 2. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 3. The LTB can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 4. The LTB has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from an LTB office. OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 3 of 3 Declaration (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberI,of the City/Town/Municipality ofdeclare that:To the best of my knowledge, the information in this form is complete and accurate. I understand that it is an offence under s.234 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information in this form.NameSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)15/12/2018 Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N7": "Notice to End your Tenancy For Causing Serious Problems in the Rental Unit or Residential Complex N7 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlord I am giving you this notice because I want to end your tenancy - I want you to move out of your rental unit by the following termination date: .dd/mm/yyyy// I can apply to the Board immediately for an order to evict you. See Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board on Page 2.My Reason(s) for Ending your TenancyI have shaded the box(es) next to my reason(s) for ending your tenancy. Reason 1: Your behaviour or the behaviour of someone visiting or living with you has seriously impaired the safety of another person and this behaviour occurred in the residential complex. Reason 2: You or someone visiting or living with you has wilfully damaged the rental unit or the residential complex. Reason 3: You or someone visiting or living with you has used the rental unit or the residential complex in a way that is inconsistent with its use as residential premises and this has caused or can be expected to cause serious damage. Reason 4: You and I live in the same building that has 3 or fewer residential units. Your behaviour or the behaviour of someone visiting or living with you has substantially interfered with: \u0141 my reasonable enjoyment of the residential complex, and/or \u0141 another one of my lawful rights, privileges, or interests Details About the Reasons for this Notice I have listed below the events that have led me to give you this notice, including the dates, times and specific details. Date/Time Details of the Eventsv. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The termination dateThe termination date the landlord sets out in this notice must be at least 10 days after the landlord gives you this notice. What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with what the landlord has put in this notice. However, the landlord can apply to the Board for an order to evict you. The Board will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree. What if you move out?If you move out of the rental unit by the termination date, your tenancy ends on that date. However, if your landlord gave you this notice because you damaged the rental unit or the residential complex, you may still owe the landlord money for the damage.What if the landlord applies to the Board?If the landlord applies to the Board to evict you, the Board will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in this Notice to End your Tenancy and in the application and you can respond to the claims your landlord makes. How to get more information For more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 2 of 2", "N13": "Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord Wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use N13 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlord I am giving you this notice because I want to end your tenancy. I want you to move out of your rental unit by the following termination date: .dd/mm/yyyy//My Reason for Ending your TenancyI have shaded the circle next to my reason for ending your tenancy. Reason 1: I intend to demolish the rental unit or the residential complex.Reason 2: I require the rental unit to be vacant in order to do repairs or renovations so extensive that I am required to get a building permit and the rental unit must be vacant to do the work.Note: You have the right to move back into the rental unit once I have completed the repairs or renovations. If you want to move back in once the work is done, you must give me written notice telling me you want to move back in. Also, you must keep me informed in writing any time your address changes.Reason 3: I intend to convert the rental unit or the residential complex to a non-residential use.Details About the Work I Plan to do I have described below the work I plan to do for the reason shown above, including specific details about how I will carry out the work. Work planned Details of the Workv. 28/07/2020Page 1 of 4 Necessary permits I have shaded the circle to indicate whether I have obtained any necessary building permits. I have obtained the necessary building permits or other authorization to convert, demolish or repair the rental unit. I will obtain the necessary building permits or other authorization to convert demolish or repair the rental unit. No permits or other authorization are necessary in this case to convert the rental unit or demolish it.Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) The termination dateThe termination date the landlord sets out in this notice must be at least 120 days after the landlord gives you the notice. Exception: If you live in a mobile home park or land lease community and you own the mobile home or land lease home, the termination date must be at least 1 year after the landlord gave you this notice. Also, the termination date must be the last day of the rental period. For example, if you pay rent on the first of each month, the termination date must be the last day of a month. Finally, if the tenancy is for a fixed term the termination date cannot be earlier than the last day of the fixed term. For example, if you signed a one-year lease, the termination date cannot be earlier than the last day of the one-year period set out in the lease.A tenant can give 10 days' notice to end the tenancyYou can terminate the tenancy sooner than the date set out in this notice as long as you give the landlord at least 10 days' notice in writing that you intend to move out of the rental unit. You must use the Landlord and Tenant Board's Form N9 Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy to give your written notice to the landlord.What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with what the landlord has put in this notice. However, the landlord can apply to the LTB to evict you. The LTB will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree.What if you move out?If you move out of the rental unit by the termination date, your tenancy ends on that date. What if the landlord applies to the LTB? The landlord can apply to the LTB to evict you immediately after giving you this notice. If the landlord applies to the LTB to evict you, the LTB will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in this Notice to End your Tenancy and in the application and you can respond to the claims your landlord makes. If the LTB issues an order ending your tenancy and evicting you, the order will not require you to move out any earlier than the termination date included in this notice.Compensation or another unitThe landlord may have to pay you compensation for moving out because of this notice. If the landlord is giving you this notice for Reason 1 or Reason 3: If you live in a residential complex that has at least 5 residential units, the landlord must: \u0141 pay you an amount equal to 3 months' rent, or \u0141 offer you another rental unit that is acceptable to you. If you live in a residential complex that has fewer than 5 residential units, the landlord must: \u0141 pay you an amount equal to 1 months' rent, or \u0141 offer you another rental unit that is acceptable to you.Page 2 of 4 Compensation or another unit (continued)If the landlord is giving you this notice for Reason 2: If you live in a residential complex that has at least 5 residential units and you do not plan to move back in once the repairs or renovations are done, the landlord must: \u0141 pay you an amount equal to 3 months' rent, or \u0141 offer you another rental unit that is acceptable to you. If you live in a residential complex that has fewer than 5 residential units and you do not plan to move back in once the repairs or renovations are done, the landlord must: \u0141 pay you an amount equal to 1 months' rent, or \u0141 offer you another rental unit that is acceptable to you. If you live in a residential complex that has at least 5 residential units and you plan to move back in once the repairs or renovations are done, the landlord must pay you: \u0141 an amount equal to 3 months' rent, or \u0141 the rent for the period of time the rental unit is being repaired or renovated, whichever is less. If you live in a residential complex that has fewer than 5 residential units and you plan to move back in once the repairs or renovations are done, the landlord must pay you: \u0141 an amount equal to 1 months' rent, or \u0141 the rent for the period of time the rental unit is being repaired or renovated, whichever is less. Exception for mobile homes and land lease communities: If: \u0141 you live in a mobile home park or land lease community, \u0141 you own the mobile home or land lease home, and \u0141 the landlord is giving you this notice for either Reason 1, Reason 2 or Reason 3, the landlord must pay you: \u0141 an amount equal to one years' rent, or \u0141 $3,000, whichever is less. Where compensation has to be paid, it must be paid by the termination date in this notice. The landlord is not required to pay you compensation: Your landlord is not required to pay you compensation for moving out because of this notice if your landlord is giving you this notice because they were ordered to demolish or repair the rental unit under any Act or law.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the LTB by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 3 of 4 Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 4 of 4", "Fee_Waiver_Request": "Fee Waiver Request (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)If you want the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to waive fees, you MUST complete this Fee Waiver Request and attach it to the FRONT of the application or request form(s) you want to file and/or the description of what you want the LTB to provide.Part 1: General InformationFirst Name:Last Name:Mailing Address:Daytime Phone Number:Email Address:Part 2: Reason for RequestWhat is the primary source of your household income? Select either Reason 1 or Reason 2. Then, provide the information requested under the reason you selected. Note that your household means you, your spouse and dependent children. Your household income includes all of the income (before taxes and deductions) for all people living in your household.Reason 1 \u0152 Income Support: Select this reason if the primary source of your household income is one or more of the income support programs listed below. Check the box(es) next to your household\u2122s primary source of income.Ontario WorksOntario Disability Support Program (ODSP)Old Age Security Pension (OAS) together with Guaranteed Income SupplementWar Veterans\u2122 AllowanceCanada Pension PlanReason 2 \u0152 Other: Select this reason if your gross monthly household income is less than the amount set out in the table below. Select the appropriate circle to indicate the number of people in your household, including yourself: 1 2 3 4 5 or moreThe combined gross monthly income from all sources (before taxes and deductions) for my household is:$\u0141v. 16/01/2017Page 1 of 2 To be eligible for a fee waiver, your gross monthly household income must be below the threshold set out below:ThresholdNumber of people in householdGross monthly household income1Less than $1,6502Less than $2,4753Less than $2,8404Less than $3,3905 or moreLess than $3,940Part 3: DeclarationInstructions: Do not sign your Fee Waiver Request until you are sure that you understand what you are declaring here. To the best of my knowledge, the information in this Fee Waiver Request is complete and accurate. I understand that it is an offence under s. 234 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information in my Fee Waiver Request. I understand that I may be required to provide financial documents to prove the information in the request if I am asked to do so by the LTB. I understand that personal information contained on this form is collected under the authority of s. 181.1 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. This information will be used to determine fee waiver eligibility. Any questions about this collection may be directed to a Customer Service Officer at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234.Signature:Date:The LTB will provide you with a copy of your approved or denied Fee Waiver Request form to notify you of whether or not it has been approved. If the request is denied, the LTB will not process the attached request until payment is received.FOR OFFICE USE ONLYFee Waiver is: Approved Denied (criteria not met)CSO Initials:File number(s) relating to the request:Date Received:Page 2 of 2", "Motion_to_Set_Aside_an_Ex_Parte_Order_Form_S2": "Motion to Set Aside an Ex Parte Order FORM S2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Between:File Number Landlord/Co-op Name: Tenant/Co-op Member Name: Address of Rental Unit/Co-op Member Unit: I, , am asking that the Landlord and Tenant Board set aside the order dateddd/mm/yyyy//for the unit identified above. Explain why you think the order should be set aside:You must file this motion with the Landlord and Tenant Board no later than 10 days after the date the order was issued. Once it is filed, the Board will schedule a hearing. Once you receive a copy of the Notice of Hearing and a copy of the motion you should take them to the Sheriff\u2122s office immediately. If you file this motion no later than 10 days after the date the order was issued, the order will be stayed. This means it cannot be enforced. At the hearing, the Board will decide whether to set aside the order. If the Board decides to set aside the order a new order will be issued.Signature Tenant Co-op Member RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).v. 22/03/2021 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __", "Request_to_Review_an_Order": "Request to Review an Order (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information Use this form to request that the Landlord and Tenant Board (the Board) review an order if: \u0141 you believe the order contains a serious error, or \u0141 you were not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding. Instructions for a Request to Review an Order are available on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. NOTE: DO NOT USE this form if you believe that the Board made a clerical error in writing an order (e.g. a spelling mistake, a mistake in calculation, etc.). In this case you can file a Request to Amend an Order. The Request to Amend an Order form is available on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. A party may file only one request to review an order. If the same party files another request to review the same order, it may be denied and the Board will not refund the fee. 1. Complete all three parts of this form. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the party requesting a review of an order (the Requester), \u0141 the address of the rental unit covered by this request, \u0141 the other parties to the request. \u0141 Part 2 requires you to select and explain the reasons for your request. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 2. File all pages of the form (not including this page) with the Board no more than 30 days after the date the order was issued. 3. Pay the fee of $58 to the Board at the same time as you file a Request to Review an Order form. The Board will not process your request unless you pay the fee. If you file the form in person you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the form you cannot pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 4. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Request to Review an Order (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: General InformationRequester's Information Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member Other PartyFirst NameLast Name Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-Unit, Building or Complex Covered by the RequestStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOther Parties to the Request Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member Other PartyFirst Name Last Name Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-If there is more than one other party, provide the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the additional other parties on the Schedule of Parties form which is available from the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 4 Part 2: Reasons for Your RequestI am requesting that the Board review the orderissued ondd/mm/yyyy//, because it contains a serious error.Shade the box(es) completely next to your reason for applying. I believe the order contains a serious error, I was not reasonably able to participate in the proceedingIn the space provided below, describe why you are requesting a review of the order. If you are requesting a review because you believe the order contains a serious error, describe why you believe that the order contains a serious error. For example: \u0141 Did the Board apply the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 in a situation where it did not apply? \u0141 Did the order include a remedy that is not appropriate in the circumstances? \u0141 Was a decision in the order affected by information that was misleading or incorrect? \u0141 Did the order fail to comply with the rules of natural justice? If you are requesting a review because you were not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding, describe why you were not reasonably able to participate. For example: \u0141 Did you not receive the Notice of Hearing? \u0141 Was the Notice of Hearing served incorrectly, for example to the wrong address or to the wrong person? \u0141 Were you physically unable to attend? Explain in detail why you believe the order contains a serious error or why you were not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding. As well, indicate how you think the order should be changed if your request for review is successful. If you do not convince the Board that there may be a serious error in the order, or that you were not reasonably able to participate in the proceeding, your Request to Review an Order may be dismissed without further consideration.Attach additional sheets if necessaryPage 2 of 4 Shade the appropriate circle to indicate whether you are asking the Board to stay (put on hold) the order or to lift (remove) a stay. I am requesting that the Board stay the order I want reviewed. An order that is stayed cannot be enforced.Explain why the Board should stay the order you want reviewed.Attach additional sheets if necessary I am requesting that the Board lift the stay imposed by the Divisional Court on the order I want reviewed. An order that is appealed to the Divisional Court is automatically stayed and the Board cannot consider your Request to Review an Order unless it first decides to lift the stay.Explain why the Board should lift the stay resulting from the appeal to Divisional Court.Attach additional sheets if necessaryOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 3 of 4 Part 3: Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the request? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Requester Representative OtherInformation About the RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressCollecting Personal InformationThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. If a hearing is scheduled for your request, you can ask the Board to provide French-language services. If you are the requester, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this form. If you are one of the other parties, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. If a hearing is scheduled for your request, you can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code in person, by telephone, or mail. If you are the requester, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this form. If you are one of the other parties, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the review process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in the review process. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.Page 4 of 4 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Tenant's_Motion_to_Void_an_Eviction_Order_for_Arrears_of_Rent": "v. 15/12/2018How to stop an eviction order for non-payment of rentPay all the money the order says you oweIf you pay all the money the eviction order says you owe before the Sheriff evicts you, the eviction order is void. If your eviction order is void, you cannot be evicted and you can stay in your unit. You can pay the money to your landlord or into the Landlord and Tenant Board (the LTB), or part of the money to each so long as you pay all the money you owe. If you pay everything to the LTB If you pay all the money the eviction order says you owe to the LTB before the landlord can file the eviction order with the Sheriff, you must file your stamped bank deposit slip with the LTB so that the LTB can confirm your eviction is void. You do not have to file this motion. The LTB will issue a notice to confirm that you made the payment required to void the eviction order and will send the notice to you and your landlord.If you paid any part of the money owing to the landlord If you pay all the money the eviction order says you owe before the landlord can file the eviction order with the Sheriff, and you paid part of this amount to your landlord, then you must file the attached \"Tenant Motion to Void an Eviction Order for Arrears of Rent\" with the LTB. You must also complete the declaration form attached to the motion to confirm that all amounts owing have been paid.If any of your payments were made after the enforceable dateIf you pay all the money you owe, but any of your payment(s) were made after the landlord could file the eviction order with the Sheriff, you must file the attached motion and declaration with the LTB.Information about the amount you must payInformation about the amount you must pay to void your eviction is found in the eviction order. The order tells you how much you have to pay before the date that your landlord can file the eviction order with the Sheriff. However, if you are paying after this date, you have to pay all the money that the eviction order says you owe to stop your eviction, plus any other rent that has become due at the time you pay.Step 1: Complete the motion and declaration Fill out the motion and the attached declaration form. If you don't fill them out completely and any information is missing, it may affect the LTB's decision about whether you paid the amount required to void your eviction order and, if the LTB finds that you did not pay all the money you owe, you could be evicted. Important: When you are filling out the declaration and listing your payments, you must only list payments that you made after your hearing. The payments you made before your hearing should already be included in the LTB's order.Step 2: File the motion, declaration and proof of payment(s)File the motion and the attached declaration at a LTB office. There is no charge for filing a motion with the LTB. You can also send these documents by mail or courier to a LTB office or you can file them in person at many ServiceOntario locations. Important: If you have any documents that prove that you made these payments (e.g. receipts from your landlord, a payment deposit slip showing payment into the LTB trust account), you must file them along with your motion. v. 15/12/2018What happens after you file the motion and declarationThis depends on when you made your payments. If your motion and declaration show that all of the payments were made before the date that your landlord could file the eviction order with the Sheriff, the LTB will: \u0141 make a decision based on your motion and declaration without holding a hearing, and \u0141 send you and your landlord the decision telling you whether or not the eviction order is void. If you made any payments after the date that your landlord could file the eviction order with the Sheriff: \u0141 the LTB will schedule a hearing and issue a Notice of Hearing, and \u0141 after the hearing, the LTB will send you and your landlord an order telling you whether or not the eviction order is void. Important: At the hearing, the LTB may order you to pay into the LTB any additional money that your landlord paid to the Sheriff to have you evicted. If this is ordered and you don't pay this amount by the date in the order, your eviction order will not be void and you may be evicted even if you have paid all the other money you owe your landlord.The LTB cannot void your eviction if \u2013\u0141 you don't pay the required amount to void your order, \u0141 the Sheriff has already evicted you, \u0141 you have already moved out of your unit, or, \u0141 during this tenancy agreement with your landlord, you previously filed a motion to void an eviction order where you made payments after your landlord was allowed to file the eviction order with the Sheriff to have it enforced, and that motion was decided by the LTB at a hearing. v. 15/12/2018Tenant's Motion to Void an Eviction Order for Arrears of Rent (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Print or Type Between:File NumberTenant's name:Landlord's name:Address of the Rental Unit: I,, am asking the Landlord and Tenant Board to determine thatorder(file number), datedis void.Important Information1. The tenant must submit any supporting documents they have showing the payments that were made. 2. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 3. For further information you may contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or, you may visit the LTB's website at sjto.ca/LTB.Signature Tenant RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, the Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the personal information requested on this form. We use the information to resolve your application. After you file the form, your information may also be available to the public. If you have questions about how the LTB uses your personal information, contact one of our Customer Service Officers at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 15/12/2018File NumberDECLARATION FOR THE TENANT'S MOTIONI,of the City/Town/Municipality ofdeclare that:As of the last payment date listed in this form, I have paid: \u0141 all of the rent arrears, all NSF cheque charges and administration charges, and all costs I was ordered to pay as set out in the LTB's eviction order, \u0141 all additional rent that has become owing under my tenancy agreement since the LTB issued the eviction order. I am making this motion because the total of the payments listed below is at least the amount I am requiredto pay to void eviction orderas set out in section 74 of theResidential Tenancies Act, 2006. The following lists all the payments that I made after the hearing to void the eviction order: (Do not include payments that you made before your hearing.)Amount $Payment Date (dd/mm/yyyy)Paid To (provide name(s))Type of Payment (e.g. cash, cheque, certified cheque, money order, etc.)To the best of my knowledge, the information in this form is complete and accurate. I understand that it is an offence under s.234 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information in this form.Signature of TenantDate (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email E-file FaxMSFL", "Summons": "Summons (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberTo: (Name)Address:You are summoned and required to attend the following Landlord and Tenant Board hearing.Hearing Date and Time:Hearing Location:You must remain at the hearing until the hearing is finished and you are told that you can leave.The hearing is about:(Unit number and full address of the rental property)The parties are:(applicant)and(respondent)You must bring with you and produce at the hearing the following documents and things: (List the documents required and provide sufficient details so the witness can easily identify what they must have with them at the hearing. Additional sheets may be attached if required.)Dated at, on the day of, 20.Member, Landlord and Tenant Boardv. 22/12/2021 Page of Information about this SummonsInformation for the person serving the summons1. As a lawyer or paralegal, you must complete both the Request for the LTB to Issue a Summons form and this Summons form and file them with the LTB. If the LTB grants your request for a summons, an LTB member will sign your completed summons form. 2. This summons must be signed by a member of the LTB before you can serve it on (give it to) a witness. 3. You must serve the summons directly on the witness. A summons cannot be served by mail or left with someone else at the address. If someone else serves the summons, the LTB may ask you to prove that this person gave it directly to the witness.Information for the person being summoned1. You are entitled to be paid fees for participating in the hearing as if you have been summoned to attend at the Superior Court of Justice. The amount that you are entitled to be paid is found in Tariff A of the Rules of Civil Procedure. 2. This summons was issued at the request of:Name:Address:Telephone No.:LSUC #:Email Address:Any questions you have about your attendance as a witness or about the documents or things requested in this summons should be directed to the person named above.3. Call the LTB at 1-888-332-3234 or 416-645-8080 if you need services in French. 4. The LTB will accommodate your Human Rights Code related needs under Tribunals Ontario's Accessibility and Accommodation Policy. You can read the policy at tribunalsontario.ca under \"Accessing Our Services\" \u0152 \"Accessibility and Diversity\". Or you can call the LTB at the number above and ask for a copy.Additional information about the summons processA witness who is properly served with the summons, is paid in accordance with Tariff A, and who fails to attend the LTB hearing without a lawful excuse, may be punished by the Superior Court of Justice in the same way as the Court would punish a witness who disobeys a summons to court. To read Rules of Procedure 7.5 and 7.6 or the brochure Requesting a Summons, visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or call the LTB at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234 to request a copy. Page of", "Certificate_Of_Service": "Certificate of Service (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberAddress of Rental Unit: Unit /Apt. /Suite: Street Address: Municipality (City, Town, etc): Postal Code:I, , certify that ondd/mm/yyyy//, I gave a copy of the following document(s): Notice of Termination Form # Motion to Set Aside an Ex Parte Order Application Form # Request to Review an Order Notice of Hearing Otherto the following person(s):(insert name of document ) the tenant the landlord other(insert the name of the person you gave the document to) more than one tenant, who is a party to the same application, on the same date and in the same way.(If you shade this circle, attach a list of the names and addresses of the people you served.)by the following method of service: handing the document(s) to the person(s). handing the document(s) to an authorized employee of the landlord. handing the document(s) to an adult person in the tenant's rental unit. leaving the document(s) in the mailbox, or place where mail is normally delivered. placing the document(s) under the door of the rental unit or through a mail slot in the door. sending the document(s) by courier to the person(s). sending the document(s) by fax to fax number: sending the document(s) by mail or Xpresspost to the last known address of the person(s), at: a different method of service (provide details)Notes:1. The only document that can be properly served by posting it to the door of the rental unit is a notice of intent to enter a rental unit given under section 27 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, unless a Member orders otherwise pursuant to the Landlord and Tenant Board's Rules of Practice. 2. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board.Signature Landlord Tenant Representative OtherFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-v. 22/03/2021 Signature (the person who served the documents must sign the form) Date (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).", "Request_to_Pay_Rent_to_the_Board_on_a_Tenant_Application_About_Maintenance": "Request to Pay Rent to the Board on a Tenant Application About Maintenance (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File Number(Tenant Application About Maintenance) Tenant's Name: Landlord's Name: Address of Rental Unit:I am asking the Landlord and Tenant Board to permit me to pay all or part of my rent into the Board until a final decision is made in my Application About Maintenance (Form T6). I want to pay a lump sum of $\u0141into the Board immediately. This amountcovers the rent for the period fromdd/mm/yyyy// todd/mm/yyyy//. I want to make future rent payments to the Board in the amount of $\u0141per month week other (specify) for: the following rental periods: fromdd/mm/yyyy// todd/mm/yyyy//. all future rental periods until my application is resolved.Information about my rent:Under the terms of my rental agreement:My current rent is $\u0141, per month week other (specify)My rent is due on theday of each month week other (specify)The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLv. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 2 Explain why you believe the Board should permit you to pay all or part of your rent into the Board and not directly to the landlord.Signature Tenant RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Important Information:1. The Board will send you and all other parties to your application a decision in writing to tell you whether or not this request has been granted. 2. If the Board grants your request and you pay your rent for the specified rental period(s) in full and on time into the Board, you are not considered to be in breach of your obligation to pay rent under your tenancy agreement or under the Act for the specified rental period(s). 3. Once the Board has issued a final decision in your application about maintenance, it will no longer have the authority to permit you or require you to pay rent into the Board. In its final decision, the Board will direct the payment out of any rent amounts you have paid into the Board. 4. For further information, you may contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll free at 1-888-332-3234 or visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 2 of 2", "T1": "Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants Use this form to apply to have the Board determine whether your landlord collected money from you that they should not have collected or failed to pay you money they owe you. Instructions for the T1 form are available on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, your landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 your tenancy and any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you will need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T1 application fee is $53 for the first unit and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/LTB Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 7 Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOther parties to the Application Are you also applying against your superintendent or landlord's agent because they caused the problem? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. No YesComplete and attach a Schedule of Parties form available from the Board.Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 7 Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASONS FOR FILING THIS APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying to the Board. Reason 1: My landlord charged me an illegal rent, which I have paid.My landlord must pay me $\u0141This is the total amount I have been overcharged over the past twelve months. Rent History: When did you move into the rental unit you are applying about? dd/mm/yyyy//In the table below provide information about the rent you have paid in the past 12 months. Rent Amount Fill in each different rent amount you paid: \u0141 in the 12 months before you filed this application, OR \u0141 since you moved in (if you moved in less than 12 months ago). Rent Period \u0141 Under From, fill in the date you started to pay each rent amount, and \u0141 Under To, fill in the last date of the rental period you were charged each rent amount.Rent Amount $ (per month / per week)Rent PeriodFrom: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy) $\u0141//// $\u0141//// $\u0141//// $\u0141////I am required to pay rent by the month week other (specify) Reason 2: I paid an illegal charge to my landlord, my landlord's agent or the superintendent.To whom did you pay the charge? Provide the person's name and title.NameTitleHow much did you pay? $\u0141On what date did you pay the charge?dd/mm/yyyy//Page 3 of 7 Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 3: The landlord did not use my last month's rent deposit to pay for the last rental period of the tenancy and did not return the deposit to me.How much was the last month's rent deposit? $\u0141On what date did you move out of the rental unit?dd/mm/yyyy// Reason 4: I entered into a tenancy agreement with the landlord but the landlord did not allow me to move into the rental unit and did not return the money I paid as a deposit.How much was the deposit? $\u0141On what date were you supposed to move into the rental unit? dd/mm/yyyy// Reason 5: The landlord owes me interest on the last month's rent deposit.How much interest does the landlord owe you? $\u0141 Reason 6: The landlord gave me one of the following notices to end my tenancy and did not pay me compensation by the termination date on the notice: an N12 Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord, a Purchaser or Family Member Requires the Rental Unit. Note: if the N12 notice was given to the tenant because a purchaser or a family member of the purchaser requires the rental unit, compensation only has to be paid if it was given to the tenant on or after July 21, 2020; an N13 Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use. Note: if there are fewer than five residential units in the complex, compensation only has to be paid if the N13 notice was given to the tenant on or after July 21, 2020.How much compensation does the landlord owe you? $\u0141 Reason 7: The landlord sold my personal property and did not pay me the proceeds from the sale.How much does the landlord owe you for the sale of your property? $\u0141 Reason 8: The landlord did not give me the required notice telling me that there was an Order Prohibiting a Rent Increase affecting my rental unit. I want the Board to do one or both of the following. (shade the box completely next to your answer): Order the landlord to pay a fine to the Board. Determine the lawful rent for my unit, and, if the rent is unlawful, order the landlord to pay me a rent rebate.Page 4 of 7 Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Explaining your Reasons For Reasons 1 - 7 you must explain in the table below why you are filing this application. List the number of each reason you chose on pages 3 and 4. Then describe the events that led you to apply to the Board and explain why you believe the landlord owes you money as a result of those events. \u0141 What happened? What were the dates and times of the events? \u0141 Who caused the problem? What were the names and titles (such as superintendent) of all the people involved? \u0141 If you are applying for Reason 1, explain why you believe the landlord charged you an illegal rent and show how you calculated the amount you were overcharged. \u0141 If you are applying for Reason 2, explain what the payment was for and why you think the payment was illegal. \u0141 If you are applying about a rent deposit and/or about interest on the rent deposit, include the date you paid the deposit and the last date the landlord paid you interest on the deposit. Reason # Describe in Detail Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 5 of 7 Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: SIGNATURETenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal Representative Information About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 6 of 7 Tenant Application for a Rebate of Money the Landlord Owes FORM T1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/LTB or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 7 of 7 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N1": "Notice of Rent Increase N1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. To: (Tenant's name and address) From: (Landlord's name and address) Address of the Rental Unit: Your New RentOndd/mm/yyyy//, your rent will increase to $\u0141per month week other (specify).This rent includes the basic rent for your rental unit, plus any amount you pay separately to your landlord for services.Explanation of the Rent IncreaseThis is a rent increase of: $\u0141per month week other (specify) or %.Shade one of the following: This rent increase is less than or equal to the rent increase guideline and does not need approval by an order under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006.OR This rent increase is more than the rent increase guideline, but:1.The rent increase has been approved by an order under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006.2.The rent increase must be approved by an order under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. I have applied to the Board for a Rent Increase Above the Guideline.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Notice of Rent Increase N1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Important Information About the Law1. The landlord must give the tenant this notice at least 90 days before the date of the rent increase. A landlord may increase the rent if at least 12 months have passed since the last rent increase or since a new tenant moved into the rental unit. No Notice of Rent Increase is required where the landlord and tenant have signed an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline (Form N10). 2. A tenant does not have to sign a new lease when a fixed term tenancy ends. If the tenant decides not to sign a new lease, the tenant does not have to move, but the tenancy becomes \"month-to-month\". If a tenant plans to move, the tenant must notify the landlord on Form N9 (Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy) at least 60 days before the lease expires if the tenant has a fixed term of tenancy or 60 days before the end of a monthly or yearly rental period. The tenant must notify the landlord on Form N9 at least 28 days before the end of a weekly rental period. 3. If the rent increase needs approval by an order under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 the tenant is not required to pay more than the guideline increase until the order is issued. If the tenant only pays the guideline increase, the tenant may owe the landlord once the order is issued. 4. If you have any questions about the law related to rent increases and how it applies to this notice, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or, you may also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb for further information.Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2", "N3": "Notice to Increase the Rent and/or Charges for Care Services and Meals N3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. To: (Tenant's name and address) From: (Landlord's name and address) Address of the Rental Unit: Your New Rent and ChargesOndd/mm/yyyy// Your rent will increase to $\u0141per month week other (specify).Check one of the following: This new rent does not need approval. This new rent needs approval by an order under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. Your charges for care services and/or meals will increase to $\u0141per month week other (specify).On the date of the increase, the total amount you should pay for your rent and care services and meals is $\u0141per month week other (specify).Important InformationAbout the Law1. The landlord must give the tenant a notice to increase the rent and/or the charges for care services and meals at least 90 days before the date of the increase. If the landlord is only increasing the rent, this notice does not have to be given if the landlord and tenant have signed an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline (Form N10). 2. A landlord may increase the rent if at least 12 months have passed since the last rent increase or since a new tenant moved into the rental unit. This restriction does not apply to increases in the charges for care services and meals. 3. If the rent increase needs approval by an order under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006, the tenant is not required to pay more than the guideline increase until the order is issued. If the tenant pays the guideline increase, the tenant may owe the landlord once the order is issued. 4. When a tenant moves into a care home, the landlord must give the tenant a care home information package. Until the tenant receives this package, the landlord cannot give the tenant a notice to increase the rent and/or charges for care services and meals.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Notice to Increase the Rent and/or Charges for Care Services and Meals N3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) 5. A tenant of a care home must give the landlord at least 30 days notice on Form N9 (Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy) before terminating the tenancy. Once the tenant gives this notice, the tenant can give the landlord at least 10 days written notice to stop providing care services and meals. 6. If you have any questions about the law related to rent increases and how it applies to this notice, you may contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or, you may also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb for further information.Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2", "Landlord's_Motion_to_Set_Aside_an_Order_to_Void_Form_S3": "Landlord's Motion to Set Aside an Order to Void FORM S3 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File Number- VOBetween: Landlord/Co-op Name: Tenant/Co-op Member Name: Address of Rental Unit/Co-op Member Unit:I,, am asking that the Landlord and Tenant Board set aside order- VO, dated. This order was issuedbecause the tenant or co-op member claimed that they paid the full amount required to void the eviction order for arrears before the date that I could file the eviction order with the Court Enforcement Office (Sheriff).I am filing this set aside motion for the following reasons:Important Information1. You can file this set aside motion only if the order to void the eviction was issued without holding a hearing. If the order to void was issued after a Board hearing on the tenant or co-op member's motion, you cannot file this set aside motion. However, in this case, if you believe there is an error in the order to void, you can file a request to review with the Board. 2. You must file this set aside motion with the Landlord and Tenant Board no later than 10 days after the date of the order that voided the tenant or co-op member's eviction. Once this motion is filed, the Board will schedule a hearing. 3. At the hearing, the Board will decide whether the eviction order based on arrears is void, or is confirmed. Until that decision is made, the order voiding the eviction remains in effect.Signature Landlord Co-op RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)v. 22/03/2021The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFL", "Request_to_Re-open_an_Application": "Request to Re-open an Application (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File Number of application to be re-opened: Part 1: General InformationRequester's Information Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member Other PartyFirst NameLast NameMailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-Rental Unit or Co-op Member Unit Covered by this RequestStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOther Parties to the Application Landlord Co-op Tenant Co-op Member Other PartyFirst NameLast NameMailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-If there is more than one other party, complete a Schedule of Parties form with their names and addresses (including the unit numbers) and file it with the application.Related Applicationsv. 22/03/2021List the file numbers of any other applications to the Board that relate to the same rental unit.File Number 1File Number 2Page 1 of 3 Part 2: Reasons for Re-Opening your ApplicationThe application for the above address was resolved by (choose one of the following): a mediated agreement that was reached with the assistance of a Board Mediator, a consent order for a repayment plan, issued under section 206 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006.I am requesting that the application be re-opened because (choose one of the following): 1. the other party did not meet a term of the mediated agreement or the consent order, or 2. the other party forced me to enter into the agreement or gave me false or misleading information on purpose that had a material effect on the mediated agreement or the consent order, or 3. the party making the request lacked the capacity to enter into the mediated agreement.Explanation of ReasonIf you chose reason #1, state specifically which terms of the agreement were not met and how they were not met. If you chose reason #2 or reason #3, explain what happened or why you chose this reason.Attach additional sheets if necessary.Page 2 of 3 Part 3: SignatureSignature Requester Representative OtherFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberImportant Information:1. A request to reopen an application that was resolved by a mediated agreement must be made within one year of the date the agreement was signed. The request can be filed by any party to the agreement. The person who makes the request must attach a copy of the mediated agreement. 2. A request to reopen an application that was resolved by a consent order under section 206 must be made no later than 30 days after: \u0141 the tenant's failure to meet a term of the order, or \u0141 the date the order was made, on the basis that the other party coerced them or deliberately misled them. 3. When a party files this request with the LTB, the LTB will schedule a hearing and give the parties a Notice of Hearing. 4. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 5. For further information, you may contact the Landlord and Tenant Board at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. Or you may visit the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 3 of 3 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __", "Tenant_Agreement_to_Pay_Directly_for_Electricity_Costs": "Tenant Agreement to Pay Directly for Electricity Costs (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant\u2122s name) From: (Landlord\u2122s name) Address of the Rental Unit: This information is from your Landlord: I am asking you to pay directly for the electricity costs for your rental unit. If you agree, you will receivebills directly from[Name of Suite Meter Provider] and you will be responsible for paying those bills. If you agree, please sign the agreement on the next page. You do not have to agree with this request. If you agree with this request:1. Your rent will be reduced by $\u0141per month week other (specify)because I will stop paying for the electricity that is supplied to your rental unit. This rent reduction is my estimate of the amount that you will have to pay to the suite meter provider once you start paying your own electricity costs. These calculations are shown in the attached Schedule. 2. I will give you at least 30 days notice before this change takes place so that you will know the date that you will start to pay for your own electricity costs and the date you will start paying a reduced rent. 3. The suite meter provider may shut off the electricity supply to your rental unit if any amount payable to them becomes overdue. If you do not agree with this request: 1. The electricity costs for your rental unit will continue to be included in your rent. 2. I will continue to be responsible for providing your rental unit with electricity. 3. Your rent will not be reduced.WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW The following information is provided by the Landlord and Tenant Board 1. Before obtaining the tenant\u2122s consent, the landlord must give the tenant the following information: \u0141 contact information for the suite meter provider and for the Ontario Energy Board, \u0141 a statement that the suite meter provider may require a security deposit and information about the security deposit policy, \u0141 a description of fees charged by the suite meter provider, including: \u0141 type and amount of fees \u0141 how the fees are calculated \u0141 circumstances where the fees may increase \u0141 the amount of any planned fee increasesv. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 2. If the landlord provides a refrigerator for the rental unit, the tenant must be given the best information that is available to the landlord about its date of manufacture and about its energy efficiency. 3. If electricity is the primary source of power to heat a rental unit, a landlord cannot terminate their obligation to supply electric heat. However, if there is a separate meter to measure the electricity for other uses in the rental unit, the landlord and tenant can agree to transfer the responsibility for paying the electricity costs for these other uses. If you do not agree with this request, do not sign the agreement below. If you agree with this request, sign and date the agreement below and return this form to your landlord. You may wish to make a copy of the signed agreement for yourself. I agree that I will pay the electricity costs for my rental unit directly to the suite meter provider. Tenant's Name Tenant's Signature Date Tenant's Name Tenant's Signature DateIf there is more than one tenant under the tenancy agreement, each tenant must sign the agreement. If there are more than two tenants under the tenancy agreement, they may add their name, signature and the date in the space below.Page 2 of 2 Schedule A \u0152 Rent reduction based on past actual electricity use for the rental unit Read the Instructions carefully before completing this form.Amount of rent reduction $\u0141per month week other (specify)Most recent 12 month billing PeriodFrom:dd/mm/yyyy// To:dd/mm/yyyy//Note: The amount of the rent reduction is based on the electricity used during this 12 month period.The amounts below do not include costs for deposits, one-time set up fees and any penalties or charges related to late payment. Option 1 \u0152 The rental unit was rented for the entire 12 month period noted above.A Total costs of electricity use for the rental unit for the 12 month period described above $\u0141 +B Total estimated additional charges and taxes (See Instructions for an explanation of how to calculate this amount.) $\u0141 \u00b8C Total number of rental periods in the 12 month period =D Amount of rent reduction per rental period (A + B) \u00f7 C $\u0141 Option 2 \u0152 The rental unit was vacant for one or more months during the 12 month period noted above.A Total adjusted cost of electricity use (calculation on next page) $\u0141 +B Total estimated additional charges and taxes (calculation on next page) $\u0141 \u00b8C Total number of rental periods in the 12 month period =D Amount of rent reduction per rental period (A + B) \u00f7 C $\u0141Page 1 of 2 Schedule A \u0152 Rent reduction based on past actual electricity use for the rental unit Read the Instructions carefully before completing this form. The calculations below only apply where the rental unit was vacant for one or more months during the most recent 12 month period (Option 2 on previous page).Row A \u0152 Cost calculation for adjusted electricity useA Cost of electricity use for the rental unit for the portion of the 12 month period during which the unit was occupied $\u0141 \u00b8B Number of full months unit was occupied during the 12 month period X 12C Total adjusted cost of electricity use (A \u00f7 B x 12) $\u0141(Enter this amount in Option 2, Row A)Row B \u0152 Calculation for estimated additional taxes and chargesA Kilowatt hours of electricity used by the rental unit for the portion of the 12 month period during which the unit was occupied(kWh) \u00b8B Number of full months unit was occupied during the 12 month period X 12C Total estimated kilowatt hours of electricity used(kWh)D Total estimated additional charges and taxes (See Instructions for an explanation of how to calculate this amount.) $\u0141(Enter this amount in Option 2, Row B)Page 2 of 2 Schedule B \u0152 Rent reduction based upon estimated past electricity use for the rental unit Read the Instructions carefully before completing this form.Amount of rent reduction $\u0141per month week other (specify)Most recent 12 month billing PeriodFrom:dd/mm/yyyy// To:dd/mm/yyyy//Note: The amount of the rent reduction is based on the electricity used during this 12 month period.The amounts below do not include costs for deposits, one-time set up fees and any penalties or charges related to late payment. Step 1 \u0152 Calculate the cost of the annual electricity use for all rental units in the residential complexA Cost of electricity use for the residential complex for the 12 month period described above $\u0141-B Cost of electricity use for the same 12 month period for the portion of the residential complex other than the rental units* $\u0141 =C Total cost of yearly electricity use for all rental units in the residential complex (A-B) $\u0141*As estimated by an individual who holds a licence under the Professional Engineers Act.Step 2 \u0152 Calculate the annual amount of electricity used by all rental units in the residential complexA Kilowatt hours of electricity used by the residential complex for the 12 month period described above(kWh)-B Kilowatt hours of electricity used for the same 12 month period for the portion of the residential complex other than the rental units *(kWh) =C Yearly amount of kilowatt hours of electricity used by all rental units in the residential complex (A-B)(kWh)*As estimated by an individual who holds a licence under the Professional Engineers Act.Page 1 of 2 Schedule B \u0152 Rent reduction based upon estimated past electricity use for the rental unit Read the Instructions carefully before completing this form.Step 3 \u0152 Determine the estimated yearly cost of electricity use for the rental unitA Total cost of yearly electricity use for all rental units in the residential complex (Amount in Step 1, row C) $\u0141XB Area of the rental unit expressed in square feet\u00b8C Total area of all rental units in the residential complex expressed in square feet=D Estimated cost of yearly electricity use for the rental unit (A x B \u00f7 C) $\u0141Step 4 \u0152 Determine the estimated yearly amount of electricity used by the rental unitA Yearly amount of kilowatt hours of electricity used by all rental units in the residential complex (Amount in Step 2, row C)(kWh)XB Area of the rental unit expressed in square feet\u00b8C Total area of all rental units in the residential complex expressed in square feet =D Estimated yearly amount of kilowatt hours of electricity used by the rental unit (A x B \u00f7 C)(kWh)Step 5 \u0152 Total amount of rent reduction per rental periodA Estimated cost of yearly electricity use for the rental unit (Amount in Step 3, row D) $\u0141+B Total estimated additional charges and taxes (See Instructions for an explanation of how to calculate this amount.) $\u0141\u00b8C Number of rental periods in a 12 month period =D Amount of the rent reduction per rental period $\u0141Page 2 of 2", "L8": "Landlord's Application Because the Tenant Changed the Locks FORM L8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Landlords Use this form to apply to the Board because your tenant changed the locks to the rental unit and/or the residential complex without your permission and you want the tenant to: \u0141 give you a key to the new locking system, or \u0141 pay your costs to change the locking system. Instructions for Form L8 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you (your name, etc.), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 requires you to explain the reason for your application. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application (not including this page) with the Board. The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee of $201 to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Landlord's Application Because the Tenant Changed the Locks FORM L8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by this ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 5 Landlord's Application Because the Tenant Changed the Locks FORM L8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Tenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 5 Landlord's Application Because the Tenant Changed the Locks FORM L8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASON FOR YOUR APPLICATIONI am applying to the Board because the tenant changed the locking system to the rental unit and/or the residential complex without my permission. Shade the circle completely next to the order you want the Board to make. I want the Board to order the tenant to: give me a copy of the key. pay me to change the locking system.or $\u0141In the box below, describe the events that led you to apply to the Board. \u0141 How did you find out the locking system had been changed? \u0141 Which locking system was changed? \u0141 When was the locking system changed (if you know)? \u0141 Who was responsible for changing the locking system (if you know)?Describe in detail. Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 3 of 5 Landlord's Application Because the Tenant Changed the Locks FORM L8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 4 of 5 Landlord's Application Because the Tenant Changed the Locks FORM L8 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 5 of 5 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Certificate_Of_Service_-_L10": "Certificate of Service \u0152 Serving a Former Tenant or a Tenant no Longer in Possession of the Rental Unit (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberAddress of Rental Unit:Unit /Apt. /Suite:Street Address:Municipality (City, Town, etc): Postal Code:I,, certify that on(dd/mm/yyyy)//, I gave a copy of the following document(s):L10 ApplicationNotice of HearingOther(insert name of document)to the following person(s):The (former) TenantOther(insert the name of the person you gave the document to)More than one former tenant, who is a party to the same application, on the same date and in the same way. (If you shade this circle, attach a list of names and addresses of the people you served.)By the following method of service:handing the document(s) to the former tenant(s).handing the document(s) to an adult person at the former tenant(s) current residence, at:sending the document(s) by mail to the former tenant(s) current residence, at:sending the document(s) by courier to the former tenant(s) current residence, at:leaving the document(s) in the mailbox, or place where mail is ordinarily delivered at the former tenant(s) current residence, at:placing the document(s) under the door or through a mail slot in the door of the former tenant(s) current residence, at:by email at:You may use email if: 1. during the tenancy the former tenant(s) agreed in writing to receive documents by email; and 2. you can prove the former tenant(s) received the document(s).If you are unable to use one of the above methods to serve the former tenant, submit a Request to use Alternative Service Method to the Landlord and Tenant Board at least 40 days before the scheduled hearing.v. 01/09/2021Page 1 of 2 Certificate of Service \u0152 Serving a Former Tenant or a Tenant no Longer in Possession of the Rental Unit (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Notes: 1. Do not use this form if the tenant is still living in the rental unit. 2. You must give each former tenant a copy of the L10 Application and the Notice of Hearing at least 30 days before the hearing. 3. You must complete this form and give it to the Landlord and Tenant Board at least 20 days before the hearing. If you do not your hearing may be canceled, and your application closed. 4. At the hearing you may be asked about how you determined the former tenant's current residence. 5. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board.SignatureLandlordRepresentativeOtherFirst NameLast NamePhone NumberSignature (the person who served the documents must sign the form)Date (dd/mm/yyyy)The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email e-File FaxMSFLPage 2 of 2", "Payment_Agreement": "Important information about the Payment AgreementA landlord and tenant can use this form when the landlord has filed an L1 application (Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes), or an L9 application (Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes). Read this information over carefully before filling out or signing the attached Payment Agreement form. You may want to get legal advice first. Once the Payment Agreement is signed by the landlord and tenant, it is a legal contract. You do not have to sign this Agreement if you do not agree with all of the terms. If the landlord and tenant do not reach an agreement on all the terms (including what happens when a payment is missed) the Landlord and Tenant Board (the Board) will hold a hearing and a Board Member will issue an order. A Payment Agreement can include: \u0141 the amount of rent that the tenant owes the landlord to the end of the current rent period, as of the date this Agreement is signed, \u0141 any NSF bank charges and related administration charges that the tenant owes the landlord, \u0141 the fee that the landlord paid to file the application, \u0141 any new rent that will come due during the period covered by the Agreement (for L1 Applications only), and \u0141 an agreement that the landlord can apply for an eviction order without notice to the tenant and without a hearing being held if the tenant misses or is late with a payment (for L1 Applications only). A Payment Agreement cannot: \u0141 agree to end the tenancy or evict the tenant, \u0141 include any repayment of any non-rent arrears except those listed above \u0141 be used where the landlord has combined a rent arrears application with another type of application. It can only be used for rent arrears applications (L1 and L9 applications). Give the Board the completed form right away: This form should be sent to the local LTB Regional Office by email as soon as it is completed and signed by the landlord and tenant. If the form is given to the Board close to the hearing date the Board may not have time to issue an order before the hearing. If this happens, the hearing will go ahead and you should attend the hearing. Filing this form with the Board: Once all parties have signed this form it must be filed with the Board. You can file a copy of the agreement with the Board by emailing, or mailing, to the local LTB Regional Office. What happens after this form is filed with the Board: The Board will decide whether to make a \"consent order\" based on the Agreement. If a consent order is issued the hearing will be cancelled. If the Board does not issue a consent order, the hearing will take place as scheduled (or a hearing will be scheduled). If a hearing is held it is important that all parties attend the hearing. If you do not go to a hearing, the Board will hold a hearing without you. For information about your hearing, see the Notice of Hearing. Important: If you do not receive an order from the Board before your hearing date, you should contact the Board to find out if the hearing has been cancelled. What happens after the Board makes a consent order: The landlord or tenant can ask the Board to re-open the application within 30 days after the Board made the consent order, if they believe that the other party: \u0141 forced them to enter into the agreement, or \u0141 gave them false or misleading information on purpose that had a \"material effect\" on this Agreement and on the order. If an application is re-opened, there will be a hearing and the Board will decide if the order should be changed. What happens if the Tenant does not meet the repayment terms? For L1 and L9 Applications: If the Board issues a consent order based on this Agreement and the landlord claims that the tenant has failed to make a payment in full and on time, the landlord can ask the Board to re-open the application and hold a hearing. This request must be made by the landlord within 30 days of the tenant's failure to make a payment in full and on time. Option for L1 Applications only: If the landlord and tenant agree, the consent order will include a term that allows the landlord to ask the Board to issue an eviction order if the tenant fails to make a payment in full and on time. The new (L4) application must be made by the landlord within 30 days of the tenant's failure to make a payment in full and on time. The Board does not charge a filing fee for this type of application.Important note to tenants:If you agree to this option, the landlord does not have to tell you before they file the new application for termination of your tenancy and eviction. If the Board accepts the landlord's application, it will send an eviction order to both parties without hearing from you. If you receive an eviction order without a hearing, you can file a motion to set aside the order within 10 days of the date the order was made, to request a hearing to challenge the eviction. Payment Agreement (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) File NumberPayment Agreement to settle based on: \u0141 an L1 Application (an Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes), or \u0141 an L9 Application (an Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes)Landlord(s):Tenant(s):Address of the Rental Unit: The terms \"landlord\" and \"tenant\" will be used in this Agreement to include everyone listed above. The landlord and the tenant agree to the following repayment plan to settle the landlord's application.1. Amount to be paid by tenant: $\u0141Rent up to this date:dd/mm/yyyy// $\u0141NSF bank and administration charges (optional) Note: $20.00 maximum administration charge per cheque $\u0141Fee the landlord paid to file the application (optional) $\u0141Total amount to be paid2. Payment Amounts and dates: The tenant agrees to pay the landlord the amount in section 1 above, as follows. (There is no restriction on the number of payments you can agree to. Attach a separate sheet if more payments are needed.)Amount to be paidDue date (dd/mm/yyyy)1. $ 2. $ 3. $ 4. $ 5. $ 6. $ 7. $ 8. $ 9. $ 10. $ 11. $ 12. $ \u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//\u0141//v. 12/11/2020 3. Rent that becomes due (L1 Applications only): The tenant also agrees to pay the landlord the rent that becomes due until the full amount owing in section 1 has been paid. These payments are in addition to the payments in section 2. (Attach additional sheet if agreeing to the rent being paid on alternate dates.)The rent is due on theday of each month week other (specify)The current rent is $\u0141per month week other (specify)4. Failure to make a payment:For L1 and L9 Applications: If the landlord claims that the tenant failed to make any agreed payment in full and on time, the landlord may ask the Board to re-open the application and hold a hearing. This request must be made by the landlord within 30 days of the tenant's failure to make a payment in full and on time.For L1 Applications (optional):If the landlord claims that the tenant has failed to make any agreed payment in full and on time, the landlord may file a new (L4) application with the Board for an order terminating the tenancy and evicting the tenant. The new application must be made by the landlord within 30 days of the tenant's failure to make a payment in full and on time. The Board does not charge a filing fee for this type of application.Important note to tenants:If you agree to this option, the landlord does not have to tell you before they file the new application. If the Board accepts the landlord's application, it will send an eviction order to both parties without hearing from you. Tenant: if you agree to include this term, initial here: Name of Tenant Signature Date Name of Tenant Signature Date Name of Landlord/Representative Signature Date Name of Landlord/Representative Signature Date(If there are more names than spaces, put them below, using the same format.)OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFL", "T2": "Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for TenantsUse this form to apply to have the Board determine whether your landlord, the landlord's agent or the superintendent: \u0141 entered your rental unit illegally, \u0141 changed the locks to your rental unit or building without giving you replacement keys, \u0141 substantially interfered with your reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or complex or with the reasonable enjoyment of a member of your household, \u0141 harassed, coerced, obstructed, threatened or interfered with you, \u0141 withheld or interfered with vital services, care services or meals. You can also use this form to apply to have the Board determine whether your landlord: \u0141 did not give you 72 hours to remove your property from the rental unit or from somewhere close to it after the Sheriff evicted you, \u0141 did not give you a written tenancy agreement for your care home unit, or gave you an agreement that did not include information about the care services and meals and/or the charges you agreed to. Instructions for the T2 form are available on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. There are other tenant application forms you can use to apply to the Board for other reasons. For example, if you want the Board to determine whether the landlord has failed to meet their obligation to maintain the rental unit and/or the residential complex, you can use the T6 Tenant Application about Maintenance. 1. Complete all four parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, \u0141 your landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 your tenancy and any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application. \u0141 Part 3 asks you to select the remedy(ies) you want the Board to include in the order. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application (not including this page) with the Board. The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T2 application fee is $53 for the first unit (or $48 if you e-File) and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you e-File the application, you must pay by credit card or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOther parties to the Application Are you also applying against your superintendent or landlord's agent because they caused the problem? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. No YesComplete and attach a Schedule of Parties form available from the Board.Questions about Your TenancyWhen did you move into the rental unit you are applying about? dd/mm/yyyy//Do you still live in the rental unit? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Yes NoWhen did you move out? dd/mm/yyyy//Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASONS FOR FILING THIS APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying to the Board. For reasons 1 - 5, the person who caused the problem could be your landlord, the landlord's agent or the superintendent. For reasons 6 and 7, you can only apply if the landlord caused the problem. My landlord, landlord's agent or superintendent Reason 1: Entered my rental unit illegally. Reason 2: Changed the locks or the locking system to my rental unit or building without giving me replacement keys. Reason 3: Substantially interfered with my reasonable enjoyment of the rental unit or complex or with the reasonable enjoyment of a member of my household. Reason 4: Harassed, coerced, obstructed, threatened or interfered with me. Reason 5: Withheld or interfered with my:\u0141 vital services, which are heat from September 1 to June 15, fuel, electricity, gas, hot or cold water, \u0141 care services and meals in my care home.My landlord Reason 6: Did not give me 72 hours to remove my property from the rental unit or from someplace close to it, after the Sheriff evicted me.You can apply for remedies 2, 3, 5, 8, 10 and remedy 11 in Part 3. Reason 7: Did not give me a written tenancy agreement for my care home unit, or gave me an agreement that did not include information about my care services and meals and/or the charges we agreed I would pay for them.If you are applying for reason 7, the only remedy you can select in Part 3 is remedy 1.Page 3 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Explaining your Reasons List the number of each reason you chose on page 3. Then describe in the box below the events that led you to apply to the Board. \u0141 What happened? \u0141 What were the dates and times of the events? \u0141 Who caused the problem? \u0141 What were the names and titles (such as superintendent) of all the people involved? Reason # Describe in DetailAttach more sheets if necessary.Page 4 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)PART 3: REMEDIESThe remedies listed below are orders the Board can make to address your reasons for filing the application. Shade the box completely next to the remedies you want the Board to order. If the Board decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the ones you selected. Remedy 1: The landlord must pay me a rent abatement of $\u0141My current rent is $\u0141I am required to pay rent by the month week other (specify).Please explain: How did you calculate the rent abatement?Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 2: The landlord, the landlord's agent or superintendent must stop the activities described below.Please explain: What activities do you want the landlord, the landlord's agent or the superintendent to stop? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 3: The landlord must pay a fine to the Board. Remedy 4: I want the Board to end my tenancy ondd/mm/yyyy//.Page 5 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 5: The landlord, landlord's agent or superintendent must pay me for the costs to repair or replace my property that was damaged, destroyed or disposed of because of their actions. The total costs are $\u0141Please explain: How was your property damaged, destroyed or disposed of? List each item and the cost to repair or replace it.Attach more sheets if necessary.If the actions of the landlord, landlord's agent or superintendent caused you to move out of your rental unit, you can ask the Board to include remedies 6 and/or 7 in the order. Remedy 6: My new rental unit has a higher rent. The landlord must pay me the difference in rent between my old rental unit and my new rental unit for one year from the date I moved out.The difference in rent is $\u0141each month week other (specify)The total amount the landlord owes me is $\u0141 Remedy 7: The landlord must pay me for my moving and storage expenses.These expenses total $\u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the expenses? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 6 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 8: I had or will have out-of-pocket expenses resulting from the actions of the landlord, landlord's agent or superintendent. The landlord, landlord's agent or superintendent must pay me for these expenses.These expenses total $\u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the expenses? Attach more sheets if necessary.If you are applying to the Board because the landlord, landlord's agent or superintendent changed the locks or the locking system without giving you replacement keys (Reason 2), you can ask the Board to include Remedy 9 in the order. Remedy 9: The landlord must allow me to move back into the rental unit and must not rent the unit to anyone else.Is the unit vacant? Yes No I don't knowIf you are applying to the Board because the landlord did not let you get your property after the Sheriff evicted you (Reason 6), you can ask the Board to include Remedy 10 in the order. Remedy 10: The landlord must return all my property that he or she possesses, or that he or she can get back from other people. Remedy 11: I want the Board to order other remedies. I have described those remedies below.Please explain: What else do you want the Board to order? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 7 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: SIGNATURETenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal Representative Information About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 8 of 9 Application about Tenant Rights FORM T2 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office. OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 9 of 9 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "L4": "Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for LandlordsYou can apply to end the tenancy and evict the tenant using Form L4 if: \u0141 the tenant has not met the conditions in an order or mediated settlement, and \u0141 the order or mediated settlement allows you to file this application. Instructions for Form L4 are available on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all four parts of this application. Read the instructions carefully before completing the form. It is important that you correctly complete your application so that there are no delays in processing it. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by the application, \u0141 you (your name, etc.), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks for information about your previous application. \u0141 Part 3 asks you to select the reason for your application. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 2. File all pages of the application (not including this page) with the LTB no later than 30 days after the tenant failed to meet a condition of the mediated settlement or order. 3. You must also file the following documents with your application: \u0141 a copy of the mediated settlement or order, \u0141 a signed declaration or sworn affidavit that sets out which conditions the tenant did not meet and in what way the tenant did not meet these conditions. In some cases, your declaration or affidavit must also provide additional information and this is explained in the Instructions. The LTB has developed a declaration form for you to use. It is attached to the application. 4. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Tenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: INFORMATION ABOUT YOUR PREVIOUS APPLICATIONWhat is the file number of the previous order or mediated settlement that resolved the application to end the tenancy and evict the tenant? File NumberWhat is the date of the previous order or mediated settlement? dd/mm/yyyy//Page 2 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: REASONS FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the box next to your reason for applying to the LTB.Reason 1:I am applying for an order to end the tenancy and evict the tenant.Reason 2:The tenant did not meet a condition of the mediated settlement or order based on the previous L1 application, so I am applying for an order to end the tenancy and evict the tenant and to collect rent and other charges the tenant owes me up to the date they move out of the rental unit.and/orReason 3:The tenant did not meet a condition of the mediated settlement or order based on the previous L2 application, so I am applying for an order to end the tenancy and evict the tenant and to collect compensation for damages and other charges the tenant owes me up to the date they move out of the rental unit.Calculation of Amount Owing:I have calculated the total amount the tenant owes me as follows:The total amount the mediated settlement or order requires the tenant to pay $\u0141Subtract any amounts the tenant has paid you towards the amount set out in the mediated settlement or order- $\u0141This is the total amount the tenant still owes from the mediated settlement or order:= $\u0141Add any NSF charges that came due after the date of the mediated settlement or order that the tenant has not paid+ $\u0141If you are applying under Reason 2 above, add any rent that came due after the date of the mediated settlement or order that the tenant has not paid+ $\u0141Total amount the tenant now owes= $\u0141Current Rent:Fill in the tenant's current rent and shade the box to show how often the tenant is required to pay rent:The current rent is $\u0141per month week other (specify)If you applied under Reason 3 only, then answer the following question:Did the tenant pay the total rent for the month in which you are filing this application? Yes NoPage 3 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the box completely next to your answer. Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressCollecting Personal InformationThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. After the landlord files this application, the LTB will normally issue an order terminating the tenancy without holding a hearing. 2. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 3. The LTB has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the LTB might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from an LTB office.Page 4 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)DECLARATIONTenant failed to meet conditions of a mediated settlement or order Section A: Information about the Conditions the Tenant Failed to MeetYou must complete this section.I,of the City/Town/Municipality of declare that:The tenant did not meet the following condition(s) of the mediated settlement or order:Indicate the condition(s) in the mediated settlement or order that were not met within the last 30 days, and how they were not met.Which other parts of this declaration must you complete?Did you select Reason #1 on the application form?\u0141 If yes, then you must only complete Section A and Section E of this form.Did you select Reason #2 and/or Reason #3 on the application form? \u0141 If yes, then complete all sections of this form.Page 5 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Section B: New Rent and Charges OwingNew Rent Owing: Complete the box below if: \u0141 the mediated settlement or order required the tenant to pay arrears of rent, and \u0141 since the date of the mediated settlement or order the tenant has failed to pay any of the rent that became due. If the tenant does not owe any new rent, mark N/A in the box.Rent Period From: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy)Rent Charged $Rent Paid $Rent Owing $ Total New Rent Arrears Owing $////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141New NSF and/or related Administration Charges Owing: Since the date of your mediated settlement or order, have you incurred NSF cheque charges because of cheques given to you by the tenant? If yes, complete the following section. If you have not incurred NSF cheque charges, mark N/A in the box.Cheque Amount $Date of Cheque dd/mm/yyyyDate NSF Charge Incurred dd/mm/yyyyBank Charge for NSF Cheque $Landlord's Administration Charge $Total Charge $ Total NSF Related Charges Owing $\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Attach additional sheets if necessary. Section C: Information about the Rent DepositComplete this section if you collected a rent deposit from the tenant and you are still holding that deposit. If you are not holding a rent deposit from the tenant, mark N/A in this section. The amount of rent currently on deposit: $\u0141The date the rent deposit was collected:dd/mm/yyyy//The last period for which interest on the rent deposit was paid:dd/mm/yyyy//to dd/mm/yyyy//Page 6 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Section D: Information about the Mediated Settlement or OrderAmounts Owing in the Mediated Settlement or Order: Fill in the following information. You should find this information in the mediated settlement or order. Date of the mediated settlement or order: dd/mm/yyyy//Total amount of rent arrears the tenant was required to pay in the mediated settlement or order: (Do not include any other amounts the tenant was required to pay.) $\u0141These rent arrears cover the period up to and including:dd/mm/yyyy//Total amount of compensation for damages tenant was required to pay in the mediated settlement or order: $\u0141Amount tenant was required to pay for NSF charges: $\u0141Amount tenant was required to pay for the fee for previous application: $\u0141Payments Received: Record all payments the tenant made using the following chart. If the tenant did not make any of the payments set out in the mediated settlement or order, mark N/A in this section. Date the Payment was made dd/mm/yyyyAmount of Payment $ What the Payment was for dd/mm/yyyy//\u0141 Arrears NSF NSF Admin Charge App. Fee Rent Damages Otherdd/mm/yyyy//\u0141 Arrears NSF NSF Admin Charge App. Fee Rent Damages Otherdd/mm/yyyy//\u0141 Arrears NSF NSF Admin Charge App. Fee Rent Damages Otherdd/mm/yyyy//\u0141 Arrears NSF NSF Admin Charge App. Fee Rent Damages Other* Note: NSF charges cannot exceed the actual amount charged by the financial institution. NSF Administration Charges cannot exceed the prescribed amount. The application fee cannot exceed the actual cost of the application. See the instructions for more detailed information.Page 7 of 8 Landlord's Application to End a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant Tenant failed to Meet Conditions of a Settlement or Order FORM L4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Section E: SignatureTo the best of my knowledge, the information in this form is complete and accurate. I understand that it is an offence under s.234 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information in this form.NameSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email E-file FaxMSFLPage 8 of 8", "N11": "Agreement to End the Tenancy N11 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Name of Tenant: include all tenant names Name of Landlord: Address of the Rental Unit: The landlord and the tenant agree that the tenancy will end on dd/mm/yyyy//. This is the termination date. The tenant will move out of the rental unit on or before the termination date. Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The landlord can apply to evict the tenantAfter the landlord and tenant sign this agreement, the landlord can apply to the Board for an order evicting the tenant. The earliest eviction date the Board can include in its order is the termination date set out above. The tenant must move outThe tenant must move out and remove all their personal possessions from the rental unit by the termination date set out above. If the tenant moves out by the termination date set out above, but leaves behind personal possessions, the tenant will no longer have any rights to those possessions and the landlord will be allowed to dispose of them.The tenant can't be required to sign this agreementA landlord cannot require the tenant to sign an N11 Agreement to End the Tenancy as a condition of agreeing to rent a unit. A tenant does not have to move out based on this agreement if the landlord required the tenant to sign it when the tenant agreed to rent the unit. Exceptions: A landlord can require a tenant to sign an N11 Agreement to End the Tenancy as a condition of agreeing to rent a rental unit in the following two situations: \u0141 The tenant is a student living in accommodation provided by a post-secondary institution or by a landlord who has an agreement with the post-secondary school to provide the accommodation. \u0141 The tenant is occupying a rental unit in a care home for the purposes of receiving rehabilitative or therapeutic services, and \u0141 the tenant agreed to occupy the rental unit for not more than 4 years, \u0141 the tenancy agreement set out that the tenant can be evicted when the objectives of providing the care services have been met or will not be met, and \u0141 the rental unit is provided to the tenant under an agreement between the landlord and a service manager under the Housing Services Act, 2011. Keep a copy of this agreementBoth the landlord and the tenant should keep a copy of this agreement for their records.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Signature of TenantFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Signature of LandlordFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 2 of 2", "A4": "Application to Vary the Amount of a Rent Reduction FORM A4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants and Landlords Use this form to apply to the Board to vary the amount of a rent reduction set out in a Notice of Rent Reduction issued by the municipality. Instructions for Form A4 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete Parts 1, 2, 3 and 5 of this application. You must also complete Part 4 if you are applying for reason 2, or if you want the Board to consider the rent revenue for the residential complex when calculating the percentage rent reduction. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit, building or residential complex covered by this application, \u0141 whether you are a tenant or the landlord, \u0141 your contact information and that of the other parties to the application, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit or residential complex. \u0141 Part 2 asks for information about the municipal property taxes for the residential complex covered by the application. \u0141 Part 3 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application. \u0141 Part 4 asks for information about the rent revenue. \u0141 Part 5 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your A4 application fee is $53 if you are a tenant and $201 if you are a landlord. If you file\u20acthe application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance).\u20acIf you mail\u20acthe application, you can't pay by cash or debit card.\u20ac If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application to Vary the Amount of a Rent Reduction FORM A4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONApplicant Information Landlord TenantFirst Name (If there is more than 1 applicant, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressAddress of the Rental Unit, Building or Residential Complex Covered by this ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 5 Application to Vary the Amount of a Rent Reduction FORM A4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Other Parties to the Application Landlord TenantFirst NameLast Name Company Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressIf there is more than one other party, complete a Schedule of Parties form with their names and addresses (including the unit numbers) and file it with the application. If you were given a Notice of Rent Reduction by the Municipality, you must attach it to the application. Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord or tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: INFORMATION ABOUT MUNICIPAL PROPERTY TAXESIn the space below, fill in the total amount of the municipal property taxes for the residential complex for the base year and the reference year. You must attach to the application evidence of the amount of property taxes charged by the municipality for both the base year and the reference year. The Base Year is the calendar year in which the municipal tax decreased. The Reference Year is the calendar year before the Base Year.Calendar Year Base Year yyyy Reference Year yyyy Total property taxes for the complex $ $\u0141\u0141Page 2 of 5 Application to Vary the Amount of a Rent Reduction FORM A4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: REASONS FOR YOUR APPLICATIONShade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying to the Board. For a further explanation of each reason, see the Instructions. Reason 1: The landlord paid charges to the municipality that the municipality did not include in the municipal property taxes for the base year when it calculated the percentage rent reduction. Calendar Year Base Year yyyy Reference Year yyyy Total Charges for the complex $ $\u0141\u0141 Reason 2: The rent reduction should be calculated using a formula that takes into account the rent revenue for the residential complex.You can apply for this reason if one of the following situations applies. Shade the circle completely next to the situation that applies. If you are applying for this reason, you must complete Part 4 of this form.The residential complex falls under the multi-residential property tax class as defined under the Assessment Act and the municipal property taxes the landlord pays are not equal to 20% of the total annual rent revenue. The residential complex does not fall under the multi-residential property tax class as defined under the Assessment Act and the municipal property taxes the landlord pays are not equal to 15% of the total annual rent revenue. Reason 3: There is an error in the percentage rent reduction set out in the Notice of Rent Reduction.Please explain: What is the error? Why do you think it is an error? Attach additional sheets if necessary.Page 3 of 5 Application to Vary the Amount of a Rent Reduction FORM A4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Reason 4: Municipal property taxes were either increased or decreased after the municipality gave the Notices of Rent Reduction. You can only apply for this reason if the property taxes for the base year were changed before March 31st of the year after the date the rent reduction took effect. You must attach to the application evidence showing the increase or decrease in property taxes. PART 4: INFORMATION ABOUT RENT REVENUEYou must answer the question below if you chose reason #2 on the previous page. You should also answer the question if you want the Board to consider the rent revenue for the residential complex when calculating the percentage rent reduction. What is the total annual rent revenue for the residential complex for the base year? $\u0141 PART 5: SIGNATURELandlord/Tenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Tenant RepresentativeInformation About the RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 4 of 5 Application to Vary the Amount of a Rent Reduction FORM A4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. Landlords and tenants must apply to the Board on or before the later of: \u0141 the 90th day following the day on which the municipality issued the Notice of Rent Reduction (or 90 days after the municipality issued the tax notice if a Notice of Rent Reduction is not required), and \u0141 March 31 of the year following the effective date of the rent reduction. 2. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 4. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 5. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 6. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.Page 5 of 5 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "Advance_Resolution_Request_(explanation)": "v. 01/10/2020Advance Resolution Request (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)In order to expeditiously resolve matters that are not complex, parties may file an Advance Resolution Request with the Board. In some cases that may result in an application being resolved without a hearing. Only the Applicant of the case, or their Representative, may file this request with the Board.Types of Early ResolutionWithdrawalThe request to withdraw option should be used when an Applicant Landlord or an Applicant Tenant decide that they do not wish to continue with their own application. This may result in the Board closing the file without issuing an order. If the Board grants the request, the Applicant must inform the Respondent as soon as possible.DiscontinuanceThe request to discontinue option should be used by an Applicant Landlord who has already filed an Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect the Rent the Tenant Owes (L1) and the Tenant, at some point after the L1 was filed, has paid all rent arrears and all new rent that came due UP TO THE DATE OF PAYMENT; and the amount the Landlord paid for filing the application. The Landlord's request will result in the Board issuing an order, without holding a hearing, finding that the Tenant's payment of all funds owing has discontinued the application.Tenant Vacated: Arrears ApplicationIf the Tenant vacated the rental unit after the Applicant Landlord filed an Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect the Rent the Tenant Owes (L1), the Landlord may notify the Board that the claim is now for rent arrears only, and not for eviction. A hearing will be scheduled to consider the claim.Tenant Vacated: Other ApplicationIf the Tenant vacated the rental unit after the Applicant Landlord filed an Application to Terminate a Tenancy and Evict a Tenant (L2), and the Landlord is seeking damages and compensation this option should be chosen and a hearing will be scheduled to consider the claim. If the Landlord is not seeking damages the Landlord should consider the withdrawal option since the cause of the application no longer exists.L1 or L9: Payment Plan, NO Eviction SoughtIf the Applicant Landlord has filed an Application to Evict a Tenant for Non-payment of Rent and to Collect the Rent the Tenant Owes (L1) or an Application to Collect Rent the Tenant Owes (L9) and the Tenant is STILL in possession then the parties may agree to a repayment plan. The Landlord and Tenant can enter into a \"Payment Agreement\" pursuant to section 206 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (RTA). The completed form must indicate the full amount owing to the end of the current rental period, must list all the payments and the due dates for the payments. The payment plan must also include the new rent that will become due during the repayment period. The agreement must provide that if any of the payments are not made in full and on time the Landlord may: a) file a request to reopen the application which will result in a hearing being scheduled at a later date; or b) file an application under section 78 of the RTA requesting an order terminating the tenancy without a hearing be held, if the payment plan was based on an L1 application. Tenants may bring a motion to set aside this type of order.ConsentIf a Landlord or a Tenant have filed an application and the parties have reached a full resolution and wish to have a consent order reflecting their agreement this option may be chosen. For instance, if the parties both wish to end the tenancy they could agree to terminate the tenancy as part of their resolution. A hearing will be held to consider the parties' request. BOTH parties must attend, and the order cannot include any terms inconsistent with the RTA.", "Affidavit": "Affidavit (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberI,of the City/Town/Municipality ofmake an oath or affirm and say as follows:Sworn (or affirmed) before me at the ofthis day of , 20.Signature of CommissionerSignature of DeponentThe LTB Rules of Practice allow the use of an unsworn statement instead of an affidavit. You may use the Declaration form that is on the LTB website instead of this Affidavit to provide the required information.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLv. 15/12/2018", "Landlord's_Notice_to_Terminate_Obligation_to_Suppy_Electricity": "Landlord\u2122s Notice to Terminate Obligation to Supply Electricity (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant\u2122s name) From: (Landlord\u2122s name) Address of the Rental Unit: You have agreed to start paying for the electricity costs for your rental unit. Your consent was given on the Tenant Agreement to Pay Directly for Electricity Costs form.Reason for this Notice: I am giving you this notice to let you know that startingdd/mm/yyyy//: \u0141 You will be responsible for paying the electricity costs for your rental unit. \u0141 I will no longer be responsible for providing electricity to your unit. Electricity will be supplied by a \ufb01suite meter provider\ufb02 and you will receive the bills directly from them. \u0141 The rent for your unit will be reduced by $\u0141per month week other (specify). This means that on the date shown above, your rent will be $\u0141 per month week other (specify).Important Information: 1. This notice can only be given if the tenant has already agreed, in writing, to start paying for their own electricity costs for their rental unit. 2. This notice must be given at least 30 days before the tenant will be responsible for paying their own electricity costs and the tenant\u2122s rent reduced. 3. The tenant\u2122s rent must be reduced by the same amount that was set out in the Tenant Agreement to Pay Directly for Electricity Costs form. 4. The rent reduction must take effect on the day the landlord\u2122s obligation to provide electricity is terminated. 5. For more information about this notice or about your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or toll-free at 1-888-332-3234. You can also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Signature Landlord RepresentativeName of Person SigningPhone NumberSignatureDateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberVersion: 27/11/2012 Page 2 of 2", "T6": "Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants Use this form to apply to have the Board determine whether your landlord: \u0141 has not repaired or maintained the rental unit or the residential complex, or \u0141 has not complied with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards. Instructions for Form T6 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all four parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, your landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 your tenancy and any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application. \u0141 Part 3 asks you to select the remedies you want the Board to include in the order. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you will need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T6 application fee is $53 for the first unit (or $48 if you e-File) and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you e-File the application, you must pay by credit card or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressQuestions about Your Tenancy When did you move into the rental unit you are applying about? dd/mm/yyyy//Do you still live in the rental unit? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Yes NoWhen did you move out?dd/mm/yyyy//Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 2: REASONS FOR FILING THIS APPLICATIONI am applying to the Board because the landlord has not repaired or maintained the rental unit or the residential complex, or has not complied with health, safety, housing or maintenance standards. Explaining your Reason In the box below, describe the maintenance problems that led you to apply to the Board. \u0141 What is the problem? If there is more than one problem, list each problem. \u0141 Give the date each problem started. \u0141 Has the problem been repaired? If so, give the date it was repaired and explain who repaired it. \u0141 Explain who or what may have caused the problem. \u0141 How did you inform the landlord about the problem?Describe in Detail:Attach more sheets if necessary.When did you first tell the landlord about the maintenance problems?dd/mm/yyyy//Page 3 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: REMEDIESThe remedies listed below are orders the Board can make to address your reasons for filing the application. Shade the box completely next to the remedies you want the Board to order. If the Board decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the one(s) you selected. Remedy 1: The landlord must pay me a rent abatement of $\u0141My current rent is $\u0141I am required to pay rent by the month week other (specify)Please explain: How did you calculate the rent abatement? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 2: The landlord must pay me for the costs to repair or replace my property that was damaged, destroyed or disposed of because the landlord did not repair or maintain the rental unit or the residential complex.The total costs are $\u0141Please explain: How was your property damaged, destroyed or disposed of? List each item and the cost to repair or replace it.Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 4 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 3: I had or will have out-of-pocket expenses because the landlord did not repair or maintain the rental unit or the residential complex. The landlord must pay me for these expenses.These expenses total $ \u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the expenses? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 4: I did repairs, replacements or other work because the landlord did not repair or maintain the rental unit or the residential complex. I want the Board to authorize the work I did and to order the landlord to pay me for my costs. The total costs are $\u0141Please explain: What work did you do? How did you calculate the costs? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 5: I want the Board to allow me to do the repairs, replacement or other work that is necessary and to order the landlord to pay me for my costs.Please explain: What work do you plan to do? How much will it cost? How did you calculate how much it will cost? Be specific.Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 5 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 6: I want the Board to order the landlord to do the repairs, replacement or other work that is necessary.Please explain: What work must the landlord do? Be specific. Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 7: I want the Board to order that the landlord cannot increase the rent for this rental unit until the landlord completes the work necessary to fix any serious maintenance problems that the landlord has been ordered to do or will be ordered to do. Remedy 8: I want the Board to end my tenancy ondd/mm/yyyy// Remedy 9: I want the Board to order other remedies. I have described those remedies below.Please explain: What else do you want the Board to order? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 6 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 4: SIGNATURETenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal Representative Information About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 7 of 8 Tenant Application about Maintenance FORM T6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 8 of 8 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N4": "Form N4 - ChecklistNotice to End a Tenancy Early for Non-payment of Rent Before you serve the attached notice to your tenant(s), make sure you can answer YES to each of the following questions. If not, your notice may be invalid. If you file an application to the Landlord and Tenant Board based on an invalid notice, your application may be dismissed and you will have to start over. Have you waited until the day after the rent was due to give this notice to the tenant?Your tenant has until midnight on the day that rent is due to pay you the rent. Make sure you wait until the day after the rent was due before you give the tenant this notice. Did you fill in the correct termination date? If your tenant pays rent by the month or year, you must give at least 14 days notice. If your tenant pays rent by the day or week, you must give at least 7 days notice. When counting the days, do not include the date you are giving the notice to the tenant. For example, if you give the notice to the tenant by hand on March 3rd, the first day of the 14-day notice period is March 4th; in this example, the earliest termination date would be March 17th. If you are giving the notice to the tenant by mail or courier, you have to add extra days in calculating the termination date. Read the Instructions to this form to see how many days you have to add. Did you name each tenant who is in possession of the rental unit?If there is more than one tenant in possession of the rental unit, fill in the names of all the tenants on the notice. Make sure you spell each tenant's name correctly. You must give each tenant a copy of this notice. Did you fill in the complete address of the rental unit?Be sure that you have provided the full address - be sure to also identify the correct rental unit (for example Unit 202 or Basement) and provide the postal code. Did you check your math? Make sure you have correctly calculated the amount you believe the tenant owes. Check the calculations in the table on page 2 to be sure the Total Rent Owing is correct. Then check that this amount matches the amount you put in the box on page 1. Did you include only rent amounts? This form is only for non-payment of rent. Rent includes the basic rent for the rental unit, plus any amount the tenant pays you separately for services (such as parking). If the tenant is paying all or a portion of a utility bill directly to the utility company or indirectly through the landlord, this is not considered rent. See the Instructions for more information. You should not use this form to ask the tenant to pay amounts other than rent (such as the last month's rent deposit or an NSF cheque charge). Did you sign and date the notice? If you don't, the notice may be invalid.You should remove this checklist before you give the tenant the notice. Notice to End your Tenancy For Non-payment of Rent N4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlordI am giving you this notice because I believe you owe me $\u0141in rent. See the table on the next page for an explanation of how I calculated this amount. I can apply to the Board to have you evicted if you do not: \u0141 pay this amount bydd/mm/yyyy//. This is called the termination date. Or \u0141 move out by the termination date. If another rent payment becomes due on or before the date you make the above payment to your landlord, you must also pay this extra amount.WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOWThe following information is provided by the Landlord and Tenant BoardThe terminationdate The date that the landlord gives you in this notice to pay or move out must be at least: \u0141 14 days after the landlord gives you the notice, if you rent by the month or year, or \u0141 7 days after the landlord gives you the notice, if you rent by the day or week.What if you agree with the notice?If you agree that you owe the amount that the landlord is claiming, you should pay this amount by the termination date in this notice. If you do so, the landlord cannot apply to the Board to evict you based on this notice. If you do not pay the amount owing, you do not have to move out. However, the landlord can apply to the Board to evict you. If the landlord applies to the Board to evict you and the Board orders the eviction, you will likely have to pay the landlord's filing fee, in addition to what you owe.What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with this notice. You could talk to your landlord. You may also want to get legal advice. If you cannot work things out, the landlord may apply to the Board for an order to evict you. The Board will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree. What if you move out?If you move out by the termination date in this notice, your tenancy will end on the termination date. However, you may still owe money to your landlord. Your landlord will not be able to apply to the Board but they may still take you to Court for this money. v. 01/04/2020Page 1 of 2 How will you know if the landlord applies to the Board?The earliest date that the landlord can apply to the Board is the day after the termination date in this notice. If the landlord does apply, the Board will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. What you can do if the landlord applies to the Board\u0141 Talk to your landlord about working out a payment plan. \u0141 Go to the hearing where you can respond to the claims your landlord makes in the application; in most cases, before the hearing starts you can also talk to a Board mediator about mediating a payment plan. \u0141 Get legal advice immediately; you may be eligible for legal aid services.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or about your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can also visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.The following information is from your landlord This table is completed by the landlord to show how they calculated the total amount of rent claimed on page 1: Rent Period From: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy)Rent Charged $Rent Paid $Rent Owing $ Total Rent Owing $////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141////\u0141\u0141\u0141\u0141Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2", "A1": "Application about Whether the Act Applies FORM A1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants and Landlords Use this form to apply to have the Board determine whether all or part of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the RTA) applies to the rental unit or residential complex. Instructions for Form A1 are available on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit or residential complex covered by this application, \u0141 your contact information and that of the other parties to the application, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit or residential complex. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to explain why you think the rental unit or residential complex is covered, or is not covered by the RTA or by parts of the RTA. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative's contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee of $53 to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file\u20acthe application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance).\u20acIf you mail\u20acthe application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application about Whether the Act Applies FORM A1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONApplicant Information Landlord TenantFirst Name (If there is more than 1 applicant, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressAddress of the Rental Unit, Building or Residential Complex Covered by this ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 4 Application about Whether the Act Applies FORM A1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Other Parties to the Application Landlord TenantFirst NameLast NameCompany Name (if applicable)Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressIf there is more than one other party, complete a Schedule of Parties form with their names and addresses (including the unit numbers) and file it with the application. Related ApplicationsIf you or your landlord or tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: REASON FOR YOUR APPLICATIONI am applying to have the Board determine whether the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the RTA) or any provision of it, applies to the rental unit or residential complex.Please explain: Describe the premises. Explain why you think it is covered or not covered by the RTA. Attach additional sheets if necessary.Page 2 of 4 Application about Whether the Act Applies FORM A1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)What is the total number of rental units in the complex?How many rental units are covered by the application? PART 3: SIGNATURELandlord/Tenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Landlord Tenant RepresentativeInformation About the RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 3 of 4 Application about Whether the Act Applies FORM A1 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office. OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 4 of 4 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "T5": "Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for TenantsUse this form to apply to the LTB if you are a former tenant who moved out of a rental unit because the landlord gave you either of the following notices to end your tenancy, and you believe the landlord gave the notice to you in bad faith: \u0141 N12 Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord, a Purchaser or a Family Member Requires the Rental Unit, \u0141 N13 Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord Wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use. Instructions for this application are available at the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Select your language preference (French or English). If you require accommodation complete a Tribunals Ontario Accommodation Request form. 2. Complete all four parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, the landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 your tenancy and any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to select and explain the reasons for your application. \u0141 Part 3 asks you to select the remedies you want the LTB to include in the order. \u0141 Part 4 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 3. File all pages of the application with the LTB (not including this page) - you must apply no later than one year after the date you moved out of the rental unit. The LTB will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the LTB at the same time as you file the application. The LTB will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T5 application fee is $53 for the first unit and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. If you cannot afford the fee, you can submit a Fee Waiver Request. 5. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Language PreferenceThe LTB offers services in both French and English.What is your preferred language?FrenchEnglishIf you are the respondent and want French Language Services, complete the Request for French Language Services form and send it by email or mail to the LTB office handling this file.AccommodationAccommodations are arrangements to allow everyone, regardless of their abilities, to participate fully in the LTB's process. If you require accommodation complete the Accommodation Request form and email or mail it to the LTB office that is handling this file. The form and more information about accommodation is available at tribunalsontario.ca/en/accessibility-and-diversity/.Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters.Part 1: General InformationAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 01/09/2021Page 1 of 6 Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Former Tenant Names and Current AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First Name Tenant 2: Last Name Current AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2Page 2 of 6 Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Information about the Tenancy When did you move out of the rental unit covered by this application? dd/mm/yyyy// Part 2: Reasons for Your ApplicationThere are four reasons for making this application. Shade the box completely next to each of your reasons for applying to the LTB. I moved out of the rental unit because the landlord gave me one of the following Notices to End your Tenancy in bad faith: Reason 1: The landlord gave me Form N12 Notice to End your Tenancy claiming that either the landlord or one of the following people intended to move in to the rental unit:\u0141 a member of the landlord's immediate family, \u0141 a person who provides or who will provide care services to the landlord or a member of the landlord's immediate family. Reason 2: The landlord gave me a Form N12 Notice to End your Tenancy claiming that either the purchaser or one of the following people intended to move in to the rental unit:\u0141 a member of the purchaser's immediate family, \u0141 a person who provides or who will provide care services to the purchaser or a member of the purchaser's immediate family. Reason 3: The landlord gave me a Form N13 Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord Wants to Demolish the Rental Unit, Repair it or Convert it to Another Use. Reason 4: The landlord gave me a Form N13 Notice to End your Tenancy because the landlord wanted to do repairs or renovations to the rental unit. I gave the landlord notice in writing that I wanted to move back in once the work was done. The landlord did not give me the right to move back into the rental unit when the work was done.Explaining your Reasons Describe the events that led you to apply to the LTB. \u0141 What happened that made you believe the landlord gave you a notice of termination in bad faith? \u0141 What were the dates and times of the events? \u0141 What happened after you moved out? \u0141 What were the names and titles (such as superintendent) of all the people involved?Describe in Detail:Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 3 of 6 Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Part 3: RemediesThe remedies listed below are orders the LTB can make to address your reasons for filing the application. Shade the box completely next to the remedies you want the LTB to order. If the LTB decides in your favour, it may decide to include a different remedy or remedies than the ones you selected. Remedy 1: The landlord must pay me a rent abatement of$\u0141My rent was $\u0141I was required to pay rent by the month week other (specify)Please explain: How did you calculate the rent abatement? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 2: The landlord must pay a fine to the LTB. Remedy 3: My new rental unit has a higher rent. The landlord must pay me the difference in rent between my old rental unit and my new rental unit for one year from the date I moved out.The difference in rent is $\u0141each month week other (specify)The total amount the landlord owes me is $\u0141 Remedy 4: The landlord must pay me for my expenses related to moving and storage.These expenses total $\u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the expenses? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 4 of 6 Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Remedy 5: The landlord must pay me general compensation of$\u0141Please explain: How did you calculate the general compensation? Attach more sheets if necessary. Remedy 6: I want the LTB to order other remedies. I have described those remedies below.Please explain: What else do you want the LTB to order? Attach more sheets if necessary.Page 5 of 6 Landlord gave a Notice of Termination in Bad Faith FORM T5 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 4: SignatureTenant/Legal Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the box completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressCollecting Personal InformationThe Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 2. The LTB can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 3. The LTB has Rules of Procedure that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the LTB might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 6 of 6 Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N9": "Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy N9 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Landlord's name) From: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names Address of the Rental Unit: I am giving this notice because I want to move out of the rental unit. The last day of my tenancy will be . This is the termination date. I will move out of the rental unit on or before the termination date.dd/mm/yyyy//Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board The termination dateFor most types of tenancies (including monthly tenancies) the termination date must be at least 60 days after the tenant gives the landlord this notice. Also, the termination date must be the last day of the rental period. For example, if the tenant pays on the first day of each month, the termination date must be the last day of the month. If the tenancy is for a fixed term (for example, a lease for one year), the termination date cannot be earlier than the last date of the fixed term. Exceptions: \u0141 The termination date must at least 28 days after the tenant gives the landlord this notice if the tenancy is daily or weekly (the tenant pays rent daily or weekly). Also, the termination date must be the last day of the rental period. For example, if the tenant pays rent weekly each Monday, the termination date must be a Sunday. If the tenancy is for a fixed term, the termination date cannot be earlier than the last date of the fixed term. \u0141 The termination date can be earlier than the last day of a fixed term tenancy (but still must be the last day of a rental period) if the tenant is giving this notice because: \u0141 the tenancy agreement was entered into on or after April 30, 2018, \u0141 the landlord was required to use the Residential Tenancy Agreement (Standard Form of Lease) form but did not, \u0141 the tenant demanded in writing that the landlord give them this form, and \u0152 more than 21 days have passed since the tenant made their demand, and the landlord has not provided the form, or \u0152 the landlord provided the form less than 30 days ago but it was not signed by the tenant. \u0141 A special rule allows less than 60 days' notice in situations where the tenant would normally be required to give 60 days notice (for example, monthly tenancies). The tenant can give notice for the end of February no later than January 1st and can give notice for the end of March no later than February 1st.The landlord can apply to end the tenancyThe landlord can apply to the Board for an order to end the tenancy and evict the tenant as soon as the tenant gives the landlord this notice. However, if the Board issues an order ending the tenancy, the order will not require the tenant to move out any earlier than the termination date the tenant included in this notice.v. 30/04/2018Page 1 of 3 When a tenant can give 10 days' noticeThe termination date set out in this notice can be 10 days (or more) after the tenant gives this notice to the landlord if the landlord has given the tenant either an N12 Notice to End your Tenancy or an N13 Notice to End your Tenancy. The termination date does not have to be the last day of a rental period.Ending the tenancy when the landlord refused to allow the tenant to assign the rental unitThe tenant can use this notice to end the tenancy if the tenant asked the landlord for permission to assign the rental unit to someone else, and the landlord refused. The termination date must be: \u0141 at least 28 days after the tenant gives the notice to the landlord if the tenancy is daily or weekly, \u0141 at least 30 days after the tenant gives the notice to landlord if the tenancy is anything other than daily or weekly. The termination date does not have to be the last day of a rental period or the last day of a fixed term.Ending the tenancy in a care homeIf the tenant lives in a care home, the termination date in this notice can be 30 days (or more) after the tenant gives the notice to the landlord. The termination date does not have to be the end of a rental period or the last day of a fixed term. If a tenant who lives in a care home gives this notice to the landlord, they can also give the landlord a 10-day notice for the landlord to stop providing care services and meals. If the tenant gives the landlord the 10-day notice, the tenant is not required to pay for care services and meals after the end of the 10-day period.Tenants can't be required to sign this notice A landlord cannot require the tenant to sign an N9 Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy as a condition of agreeing to rent a unit. A tenant does not have to move out based on this notice if the landlord required the tenant to sign it when the tenant agreed to rent the unit. Exceptions: A landlord can require a tenant to sign an N9 Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy as a condition of agreeing to rent a rental unit in the following two situations: \u0141 The tenant is a student living in accommodation provided by a post-secondary institution or by a landlord who has an agreement with the post-secondary school to provide the accommodation. \u0141 The tenant is occupying a rental unit in a care home for the purposes of receiving rehabilitative or therapeutic services, and \u0141 the tenant agreed to occupy the rental unit for not more than 4 years, \u0141 the tenancy agreement set out that the tenant can be evicted when the objectives of providing the care services have been met or will not be met, and \u0141 the rental unit is provided to the tenant under an agreement between the landlord and a service manager under the Housing Services Act, 2011. The tenant must move out by the termination dateThe tenant must move out and remove all their personal possessions from the rental unit by the termination date set out on page 1. If the tenant moves out by the termination date set out above, but leaves behind personal possessions, the tenant will no longer have any rights to those possessions and the landlord will be allowed to dispose of them.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the Board by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Page 2 of 3 Signature Tenant RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLPage 3 of 3", "Information_from_your_Landlord_about_Utility_Costs": "Information from your Landlord about Utility Costs (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. To: (Tenant\u2122s name) From: (Landlord\u2122s name) Address of the Rental Unit: Landlords must give this form to a tenant if: \u0141 The Landlord and Tenant Board issued an order under subsection 126(10) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 (the Act) increasing the rent above the guideline (AGI order); and \u0141 The increase was in whole or in part due to an extraordinary increase in the cost of utilities; and \u0141 The landlord increased the tenant\u2122s rent pursuant to the order. Important: Landlords, do not use this form if you have ceased to provide one or more of the utilities to a rental unit in the residential complex since the AGI order was issued. Instead, use the form Information from your Landlord about Utility Costs [One or More Utilities are no longer Provided in the Residential Complex].Utility Costs:a) Total Adjusted Base Year Utility Costs $\u0141Base Year Period for Utilitiesb) Current Utility Costs $\u014112-Month Period for Current Utility CostsCheck one of the following boxes: The amount in row a) is the same as or less than the amount in row b). Therefore no rent reduction is required. The amount in row a) is greater than the amount in row b). A rent reduction may be required. The landlord must complete Schedule A and attach it to this form to determine if the tenant\u2122s rent must be reduced.v. 30/11/2015Page 1 of 2 Important Information:1. The landlord must give this form to any tenant whose rent was increased pursuant to an AGI order (and all or part of the increase was attributable to utilities) and the tenant continues to reside in the same rental unit. 2. A tenant who receives this form can request that the landlord provide them with a compact disc containing all utility bills used to justify the current utility costs in portable document format (PDF). 3. The landlord must comply with a request for the utility bill information if it is made within 2 years from the date this notice was given to the tenant. The landlord cannot charge more than five dollars for providing a copy of the compact disc. Exception: The landlord does not have to provide the compact disc if the residential complex has six or fewer units, and is located in a rural or remote area, and the landlord cannot reasonably provide the compact disc. In this case, the landlord must provide a photocopy of the utility bills for a charge of not more than five dollars. 4. Instead of providing the compact disc, the landlord and the tenant can agree that the landlord will provide either of the following: \u0141 a photocopy of the utility bills used to justify the current utility costs at a reasonable charge based on the landlord\u2122s out-of-pocket costs for making the copies, or \u0141 a copy of the utility bills in PDF format, by e-mail, at no charge.Signature Landlord Representative Name of Person Signing Phone Number Signature DateRepresentative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2 Schedule A \u0152 Determining whether a Rent Reduction is Requireda) Total Adjusted Base Year Utility Costsb) Less: Current Utility Costsc) Amount of Decrease in Utility Costs [Row a) - row b)]d) Allowance for Utilities (from AGI order)e) Percentage Increase for Utilities (from AGI order)f) Percentage Amount of Rent Reduction [Row c) \u00f7 row d) x row e)]Explanation of the Rent Reduction [Check the box that applies.]1. The amount of the rent reduction in row f) is less than 0.50%. Therefore, no rent reduction is required.2. The amount of the rent reduction in row f) is 0.50% or more; the tenant\u2122s rent will be reduced by the percentage set out in row f).3. The amount of the rent reduction in row f) is 0.50% or more. However, the amount of the actual rent increase taken for utilities, pursuant to the AGI order, was less than the amount set out in row f). Therefore, the rent reduction will be limited to the actual rent increase that was taken for utilities.4. The amount of rent reduction in row f) is 0.50% or more, but there has been a previous rent reduction based on a utility decrease since the AGI order was issued. Therefore, the tenant\u2122s rent will only be reduced up to an amount that does not exceed the actual increase taken for utilities pursuant to the AGI order.Tenant\u2122s Rent ReductionAs a result of the calculations set out above, your rent shall be reduced by $per(month, week, etc.) .This rent reduction will begin as of, which is one year after the dateyour rent was last increased.", "Declaration": "Declaration (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)File NumberI,of the City/Town/Municipality ofdeclare that:To the best of my knowledge, the information in this form is complete and accurate. I understand that it is an offence under s.234 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information in this form.NameSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLv. 15/12/2018", "N12": "Notice to End your Tenancy Because the Landlord, a Purchaser or a Family Member Requires the Rental Unit N12 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) To: (Tenant's name) include all tenant names From: (Landlord's name) Address of the Rental Unit: This is a legal notice that could lead to you being evicted from your home.The following information is from your landlord I am giving you this notice because I want to end your tenancy. I want you to move out of your rental unit by the following termination date: .dd/mm/yyyy//My Reason for Ending your TenancyI have shaded the circle next to my reason for ending your tenancy. Reason 1: The following person intends to move into the rental unit and occupy it for at least one year: Me My spouse My child My parent My spouse's child My spouse's parentOr A person who provides or will provide care services to: Me My spouse My child My parent My spouse's child My spouse's parent Reason 2: I have signed an Agreement of Purchase and Sale of the rental unit and the following person intends to move into the rental unit: The purchaser The purchaser's spouse The purchaser's child The purchaser's parent The purchaser's spouse's child The purchaser's spouse's parentOr A person who provides or will provide care services to: The purchaser The purchaser's spouse The purchaser's child The purchaser's parent The purchaser's spouse's child The purchaser's spouse's parentOFFICE USE ONLY:File Number Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxFLv. 28/07/2020Page 1 of 2 Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB)The termination dateThe termination date the landlord sets out in this notice must be at least 60 days after the landlord gives you this notice. Also, the termination date must be the last day of the rental period. For example, if you pay rent on the first of each month, the termination date must be the last day of a month. Finally, if the tenancy is for a fixed term the termination date cannot be earlier than the last day of the fixed term. For example, if you signed a one-year lease, the termination date cannot be earlier than the last day of the one-year period set out in the lease.Tenant is entitled to compensation or another unitThe landlord must: Pay you an amount equal to one month's rent by the termination date in this notice, or Offer you another rental unit that is acceptable to you.A tenant can give 10 days' notice to end the tenancy You can terminate the tenancy sooner than the date set out in this notice as long as you give the landlord at least 10 days' notice that you intend to move out of the rental unit. You must use the Landlord and Tenant Board's Form N9 Tenant's Notice to End the Tenancy to give your written notice to the landlord.What if you disagree with the notice?You do not have to move out if you disagree with what the landlord has put in this notice. However, the landlord can apply to the LTB to evict you. The LTB will schedule a hearing where you can explain why you disagree.What if you move out?If you move out of the rental unit by the termination date, your tenancy ends on that date.What if the landlord applies to the LTB?The landlord can apply to the LTB to evict you immediately after giving you this notice. If the landlord applies to the LTB to evict you, the LTB will schedule a hearing and send you a copy of the application and the Notice of Hearing. The Notice of Hearing sets out the date, time and location of the hearing. At the hearing, the landlord will have to prove the claims they made in this Notice to End your Tenancy and in the application and you can respond to the claims your landlord makes. If the LTB issues an order ending your tenancy and evicting you, the order will not require you to move out any earlier than the termination date included in this notice.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the LTB by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Signature Landlord RepresentativeFirst NameLast NamePhone Number ()-SignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2", "L6": "Application for Review of a Work Order about Provincial Maintenance Standards FORM L6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Landlords Use this form to apply to have the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) review a municipal work order if the work order is about enforcing the province's maintenance standards. Instructions for Form L6 are available on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. Do not use this form to request a review of any other type of work order (for example, a municipal work order which is enforcing the municipality's property standards by-laws). 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you (your name, etc), \u0141 the tenants in possession of the rental unit, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to explain why you think that the work order should be reviewed and what changes you think should be made to it. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application (not including this page) and a copy of the work order with the LTB no later than 20 days after the day the work order was issued. The LTB will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Give the municipality a copy of this application and the Notice of Hearing you receive from the LTB. 5. Pay the application fee of $201 to the LTB at the same time as you file the application. The LTB will not process your application unless you pay the fee. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 6. Contact the LTB if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Application for Review of a Work Order about Provincial Maintenance Standards FORM L6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeLandlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 4 Application for Review of a Work Order about Provincial Maintenance Standards FORM L6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Tenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your tenant filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: REASON FOR YOUR APPLICATIONI am applying to the LTB because I disagree with the work order issued related to the provincial maintenance standards and I want the LTB to review it.Please explain: Why do you disagree with the work order? What changes should be made to it? Attach more sheets, if necessary Page 2 of 4 Application for Review of a Work Order about Provincial Maintenance Standards FORM L6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais) PART 3: SIGNATURELandlord/Representative's SignatureWho has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer.dd/mm/yyyy// Landlord Legal RepresentativeInformation About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast NameLSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 3 of 4 Application for Review of a Work Order about Provincial Maintenance Standards FORM L6 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the LTB to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at LTB offices and at the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the LTB to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the LTB to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at LTB offices and at the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The LTB can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The LTB has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the LTB might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the LTB's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a LTB office. OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 4 of 4 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when completePayment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:", "T4": "Tenant Application - Landlord did not Comply with an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline FORM T4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Important Information for Tenants Use this form to apply to the Board if you and your landlord signed an N10 Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline Form and you want the portion of the rent increase that was above the guideline returned to you because your landlord broke all or part of the agreement. The agreement required the landlord to: \u0141 do major repairs or renovations to the rental unit, \u0141 buy new equipment for the rental unit, or \u0141 add a new service to your tenancy. You must apply within two years of the date the rent increase took effect. Instructions for Form T4 are available on the Board\u2122s website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 1. Complete all three parts of this application. \u0141 Part 1 asks for general information about: \u0141 the rental unit covered by this application, \u0141 you and the other tenants living in the unit, your landlord and other parties to the application, \u0141 any other unresolved applications that relate to the rental unit. \u0141 Part 2 asks you to explain the reason for your application. \u0141 Part 3 requires your signature or that of your representative, and, if you are being represented, your representative\u2122s contact information. 2. Complete the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form at the end of this application if you will need additional services at the hearing. 3. File all pages of the application with the Board (not including this page). The Board will send you a Notice of Hearing showing the time and location of your hearing. 4. Pay the application fee to the Board at the same time as you file the application. The Board will not process your application unless you pay the fee. Your T4 application fee is $53 for the first unit and $5 for each additional unit to a maximum of $450. If you file the application in person, you can pay the fee by cash, credit card, debit card, certified cheque or money order (certified cheques and money orders must be made payable to the Minister of Finance). If you mail the application, you can't pay by cash or debit card. If you pay online, email your receipt and application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca. 5. Contact the Board if you have any questions or need more information. 416-645-8080 1-888-332-3234 (toll free) tribunalsontario.ca/ltb Tenant Application - Landlord did not Comply with an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline FORM T4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Read the instructions carefully before completing this form. Print or type in capital letters. PART 1: GENERAL INFORMATIONAddress of the Rental Unit Covered by This ApplicationStreet NumberStreet NameStreet Type (e.g. Street, Avenue, Road)Direction (e.g. East)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeTenant Names and AddressTenant 1: First Name (If there are more than 2 tenants, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Tenant 1: Last NameTenant 2: First NameTenant 2: Last NameMailing Address (if it is different from the address of the rental unit)Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressOFFICE USE ONLYFile Number v. 22/03/2021Page 1 of 4 Tenant Application - Landlord did not Comply with an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline FORM T4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Landlord's Name and AddressFirst Name (If there is more than 1 landlord, complete a Schedule of Parties form and file it with this application.)Last NameCompany Name (if applicable) Street AddressUnit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number Evening Phone Number Fax Number ()-()-()-E-mail AddressRelated ApplicationsIf you or your landlord filed other applications that relate to this rental unit and those applications have not been resolved, list their file numbers below.File Number 1File Number 2 PART 2: EXPLANATION OF YOUR APPLICATIONThe Board can order the landlord to pay you all or part of the rent increase that was above the guideline. Provide the following information to help the Board determine the amount of money the landlord may owe you. The date your rent was increased above the guideline dd/mm/yyyy//The amount of the rent increase that was above the guideline $\u0141Please explain: What did you and the landlord agree to? How did the landlord break the agreement? Rent History: When did you move into the rental unit covered by the application?dd/mm/yyyy//Page 2 of 4 Tenant Application - Landlord did not Comply with an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline FORM T4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)In the table below, provide information about the rent you have paid in the past 2 years. Rent Amount Fill in each different rent amount you paid: \u0141 in the 2 years before you filed this application OR \u0141 since you moved in (if you moved in less than 2 years ago). Rent Period \u0141 Under From, fill in the date you started to pay each rent amount, and \u0141 Under To, fill in the last date of the rental period you were charged each rent amount.Rent Amount $ (per month / per week)Rent PeriodFrom: (dd/mm/yyyy) To: (dd/mm/yyyy) $\u0141//// $\u0141//// $\u0141//// $\u0141////I am required to pay rent by the month week other (specify) PART 3: SIGNATURETenant/Representative's Signaturedd/mm/yyyy//Who has signed the application? Shade the circle completely next to your answer. Tenant 1 Tenant 2 Legal Representative Information About the Legal RepresentativeFirst NameLast Name LSUC #Company Name (if applicable)Mailing Address Unit/Apt./SuiteMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)Prov.Postal CodeDay Phone Number ()-Evening Phone Number ()-Fax Number ()-E-mail AddressPage 3 of 4 Tenant Application - Landlord did not Comply with an Agreement to Increase the Rent Above the Guideline FORM T4 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Collecting Personal Information The Landlord and Tenant Board has the right to collect the information requested on this form to resolve your application under section 185 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006. After you file the form, all information related to the proceeding may become publicly available in a tribunal decision, order or other document, in accordance with Tribunals Ontario's Access to Records Policy and the Tribunal Adjudicative Records Act, 2019. Parties wanting records or information to remain confidential must seek a confidentiality order from the adjudicator. If you have questions about confidentiality orders or access to records, please contact us by email at LTB@ontario.ca or our Contact Center at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234 (toll free).Important Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board1. You can ask the Board to provide French-language services at your hearing. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 2. You can ask the Board to make special arrangements (called a Request for Accommodation) under the Ontario Human Rights Code to help you participate in the hearing. For example, you can ask the Board to make arrangements to provide a sign-language interpreter. You can make a request for accommodation under the Code by telephone, fax or mail. If you are the applicant, you can fill out the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form included at the end of this application. If you are the respondent, the Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation form is available at Board offices and at the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. 3. It is an offence under the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 to file false or misleading information with the Landlord and Tenant Board. 4. The Board can order either the landlord or the tenant to pay the other's costs related to the application. 5. The Board has Rules of Practice that set out rules related to the application process and Interpretation Guidelines that explain how the Board might decide specific issues that could come up in an application. You can read the Rules and Guidelines on the Board's website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb or you can buy a copy from a Board office.OFFICE USE ONLY:Delivery Method: In Person Mail Courier Email Efile FaxMSFLPage 4 of 4 Request for French-Language Services or Request for Accommodation (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Use this form to ask the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB) to provide French-language services or to let the LTB know you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code.Part 1: Request for French-Language ServicesCheck this box if you want the dispute resolution process (e.g. case conferences and hearings) to be conducted in French.Part 2: Request for Accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights CodeCheck this box if you need accommodation under the Ontario Human Rights Code to participate in the dispute resolution process. The LTB will provide accommodation for Code related needs to help you throughout the application and hearing process in accordance with the Tribunals Ontario policy on accessibility and accommodation. You can get a copy of the policy at tribunalsontario.ca.Please explain: What accommodation do you need?Page __ of __ Payment and Scheduling Information Form (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Part 1: Payment MethodSelect how you are paying the application fee:Online PaymentCashDebit CardMoney OrderCertified ChequeVisaMasterCardReceipt #:Note: Receipt must be emailed with application to LTBpayments@ontario.ca.Money orders and certified cheques must be made payable to the \"Minister of Finance\"Credit Card:Important: If you are paying by credit card, you must complete the information on the next page. The information you fill in on the next page is confidential. It will be used to process your application, but will not be placed on file.Part 2: Information Required to Schedule the HearingThe LTB will normally schedule your hearing between 3 weeks and 6 weeks after the date you file your application. The LTB will schedule your hearing on the first available hearing date within this 3 week period. List the date(s) you are not available during this 3 week period. The LTB will not schedule your hearing on the date(s) you indicate you are not available and will schedule your hearing on the next available hearing date. The LTB will not contact you to schedule a hearing.I am not available on the following date(s). Payment by Credit Card (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)Card InformationCredit Card Number:Expiry Date (mm/yy):Cardholder's Name:Cardholder's Signature:OFFICE USE ONLY: Medium sensitivity when complete", "N15": "Tenant's Notice to End my Tenancy Because of Fear of Sexual or Domestic Violence and Abuse N15 (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)To: (Landlord's Name)From: (Tenant's Name) include the names of all tenants giving this noticeAddress of Rental Unit: I am giving you this notice to end my tenancy.The last day of my tenancy will bedd/mm/yyyy//.I will move out of the rental unit on or before this date.The law states that I must include one of the documents listed below with this notice. I have included:a completed LTB form \"Tenant's Statement About Sexual or Domestic Violence and Abuse\"ORa copy of a restraining order or peace bond issued by a court within the last 90 days that orders the alleged abuser not to contact me or the child and/or not to enter the rental unitImportant Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board When a tenant can give this noticeA tenant can give this notice if the tenant or a child living with them is a victim of sexual or domestic violence and abuse and the tenant believes they or the child may be harmed if they stay in the unit. If the tenant is in a joint tenancy with other tenants, some or all of the other tenants can choose to sign this notice and end their interest in the tenancy as well. If this notice is not signed by all the tenants, the tenancy will continue for those tenants who did not sign the notice.The termination dateThe termination date is the day this tenancy will end. The termination date in this notice must be at least 28 days after the tenant gives their landlord this notice. The termination date does not have to be the last day of a rental period or of a fixed term lease.This process must be kept confidentialA landlord cannot let other people know about these documents or about the information in them. This even includes the other tenants in the unit \u0152 if there are any. It is against the law for the landlord to tell other people. If a landlord shares this information with others, the landlord may be taken to court and fined. The fine could be as much as $35,000 (for an individual landlord) or $100,000 (for a company landlord). Note: There are some exceptions. The landlord may have to share this information with their employees such as a superintendent or property manager and they must also keep it confidential. Or, the landlord may be required by law to share information with other people who are investigating the situation. See section 47.4 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 for the rules about the confidentiality of this information.v. 01/04/2020Page 1 of 2 A landlord cannot advertise the unit \"for rent\"Until the termination date has passed and the tenant has moved out, a landlord cannot place a \"for rent\" advertisement if it identifies the rental unit or, if someone could identify the unit by reading the advertisement. The landlord also cannot show the unit to prospective tenants until the tenant moves out of the unit. Once the termination date has passed and the tenant has left, the landlord can advertise the unit for rent and show it to prospective tenants \u0152 if there are no other tenants still living there.When the tenant moves outThe tenant must take all their property with them when they leave. After the termination date, the landlord can keep or dispose of any property the tenant leaves behind if there are no other tenants living in the unit.If the tenant(s) do not move outIf the tenant(s) do not move out by the termination date and this notice was given by: \u0152 all the tenant(s) of the unit, the landlord may apply to the LTB to have the tenant(s) listed in this notice evicted. \u0152 some but not all of the tenants of the unit, the notice becomes void and the landlord cannot apply to evict the tenant(s) listed in this notice.How to get more informationFor more information about this notice or your rights, you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board (LTB). You can reach the LTB by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb. Tenant RepresentativeSignature:Date: (dd/mm/yyyy)If multiple tenants are giving this notice, they can sign their names below:Signature (Tenant 2):Signature (Tenant 3):Representative Information (if applicable)NameLSUC #Company NameMailing AddressPhone NumberMunicipality (City, Town, etc.)ProvincePostal CodeFax NumberPage 2 of 2", "Email_Service_Consent": "Consent to Service by Email (Disponible en fran\u00e7ais)15/12/2018Name of TenantEmail AddressName of LandlordEmail AddressAddress of Rental UnitThe landlord and tenant agree to receive the following notices and documents by email at the email addresses shown above:Notice of Rent IncreaseLandlord Notice of EntryDocuments or submissions related to an RTA application, except a notice of hearing, copy of the application, motion or request for reviewNote: Refer to the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 and the Landlord and Tenant Board's Rules of Procedure (Rule 3) for how to serve a notice of hearing or a copy of an application, motion or request for review. This information can be found on the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Communication regarding issues related to the tenancyImportant Information from the Landlord and Tenant Board 1. Consent to service by email must be in writing, although parties do not have to use this form. 2. Consent to service by email may be revoked at any time by giving notice in writing to the other person. 3. When serving a document by email, the name and telephone number of a person to contact must be included. 4. Make sure to keep a copy of this form for your records. 5. If you have any questions you can contact the Landlord and Tenant Board. You can reach the LTB by phone at 416-645-8080 or 1-888-332-3234. You can visit the LTB website at tribunalsontario.ca/ltb.Signature of TenantFirst NameLast NameSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)Signature of LandlordFirst NameLast NameSignatureDate (dd/mm/yyyy)"}
